
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
The members of the Supervisory Board are individually responsible for undertaking any necessary training
and professional development measures required for their tasks and are supported by adidas AG in this
regard. The company informs the Supervisory Board regularly about current legislative changes as well as
opportunities for external training and provides the Supervisory Board with relevant specialist literature.
In this regard, the Supervisory Board has also examined in detail the latest developments in corporate
governance, especially the new requirements of the Code 2022 and the sustainability issues relevant to
adidas.
Moreover, the Supervisory Board as well as the Audit Committee, General Committee, and Nomination
Committee regularly assess the efficiency of their work. As the improvement measures for increasing the
efficiency of the Supervisory Board’s work resolved upon in 2020 were deemed to have been implemented
successfully in the 2021 financial year, the Supervisory Board conducted another efficiency examination of
its work in October 2022 and concluded that the Supervisory Board as a whole as well as its respective
committees are efficient, and resolved upon specific measures to further improve the organization of the
Supervisory Board’s work.
The compensation of the Supervisory Board members is set out in the Compensation Report.

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
Supervisory Board of adidas AG must be composed of at least five women and five men. These minimum
quotas were achieved. As at December 31, 2022, six of the company’s 16 Supervisory Board mandates
were held by women.
Within the framework of the employee strategy already launched in 2021, the company will continue to
intensify its efforts for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in order to remain an attractive employer in the
future. There will be a particular focus on a long-term approach to equity in leadership positions – both
through hiring and through appropriate succession planning. ► SEE OUR PEOPLE
AVOIDING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are obligated to disclose any conflicts of
interest to the Supervisory Board without delay. Substantial transactions between the company and
members of the Executive Board or related parties of the Executive Board require Supervisory Board
approval. Contracts between the company and members of the Supervisory Board also require
Supervisory Board approval. The Supervisory Board reports any conflicts of interest, as well as the
handling thereof, to the Annual General Meeting. In the year under review, the members of the Executive
Board and the members of the Supervisory Board did not face any conflicts of interest. A brand
ambassador agreement exists between adidas AG and Jackie Joyner-Kersee. The Supervisory Board is of
the opinion that this does not constitute a conflict of interest. In particular, the brand ambassador
agreement does not represent a material business relationship for either adidas or Jackie Joyner-Kersee.
The Supervisory Board passed a unanimous resolution approving this agreement without the participation
of Jackie Joyner-Kersee. ► SEE SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT
SHARE TRANSACTIONS CONDUCTED BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD AND SUPERVISORY BOARD
An overview of the transactions of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board pursuant to Article(3031)19 of
the Regulation (EU) No(3031)596/2014 (Market Abuse Regulation) notified to adidas(3031)AG in 2022 is published on
our website. ► ADIDAS-GROUP.COM/S/MANAGERS-TRANSACTIONS
RELEVANT MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
Our business activities are aligned with the legal systems of the various countries and markets in which
we operate. We are also aware of our considerable social and environmental responsibility.
We will significantly increase our commitment to sustainability in the years ahead. In addition to the
continued digital transformation of the company, we are working closely with our partners in the global
supply chain to reduce energy consumption and increase the proportion of green energy we use. By 2025,
nine out of every ten adidas articles should be made from more sustainable materials, while the carbon
footprint per product should be reduced by 15% in comparison to baseline year 2017. adidas aims for
climate-neutral operation at its locations by 2025 and to reach complete climate neutrality by 2050.
Further information on company-specific practices, which are applied in addition to statutory
requirements, such as our Code of Conduct (‘Fair Play’), on compliance with working and social standards
within our supply chain, environmentally friendly resource management in our manufacturing processes,
and our social commitment is available in this Annual Report and on our website. ► SEE OUR PEOPLE
► SEE SUSTAINABILITY ► ADIDAS-GROUP.COM/SUSTAINABILITY
COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Compliance with laws, internal and external provisions, and responsible risk management are part of
corporate governance at adidas. Our Compliance Management System is linked to the company’s Internal
Control and Risk Management System. As part of our global ‘Fair Play’ concept, the Compliance
Management System establishes the organizational framework for companywide awareness of our
internal rules and guidelines and for the legally compliant conduct of our business. It underscores our

We are committed to being compliant with all tax regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate.
We consider the interests of our stakeholders in the business decisions we make in order to ensure the
lasting success of our company.
We do not operate through artificial structures or structure our business in ways that are intended to
result in tax avoidance. Where we have a presence in so-called low-tax jurisdictions, this is related to our
business activities in those jurisdictions and is not created for the purpose of minimizing our tax burden.
While tax is among the many considerations in making business decisions, it is not the main driver in our
¬
decision-making process.
Tax management and governance
⌐
Given the range of activities and locations we operate in, adidas is subject to a wide range of taxes
across the world, including corporate income tax, VAT/GST, employee-related taxes such as payroll and
fringe benefit tax, withholding taxes, property taxes, stamp duties, and other taxes. The purpose of our tax
function is to support and enable business objectives while ensuring compliance and preventing or
minimizing tax risks.
The approach to tax is defined by the Vice President Corporate Tax and is reflected in the tax strategy,
objectives, policies, and internal controls. Economic and social impacts are considered in developing and
executing our tax strategy. The Corporate Tax team reviews our tax strategy on an annual basis, with
significant changes being approved by our Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The CFO is ultimately accountable
for compliance with our tax strategy.
111 
1 2 3 4 5
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
company. Risk Management evaluates, consolidates, and aggregates the identified risks and
opportunities (‘bottom-up assessment’).
(6827) Risk Management discusses the assessment of substantial risks and opportunities with the members
of the Executive Board and leaders directly reporting to them. The Executive Board members and their
direct reports validate the assessment of risks and opportunities in their respective area of
responsibility (‘top-down assessment’).
(6827) Risk Management provides a consolidated report to the Executive Board summarizing the results of
both bottom-up and top-down assessment as well as the risk and opportunity profile to highlight a
potential threat to the company’s rating and going concern. The Executive Board reviews the report,
jointly agrees on a company assessment of risks and opportunities and decides if Risk Owners are
required to take further action.
(6827) Based on the Executive Board’s decision, Risk Management creates the final risk and opportunity
report that is also shared with the ‘CLG.’
(6827) The Executive Board presents in collaboration with Risk Management the final risk and opportunity
assessment results to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
Material changes in previously reported risks and opportunities or newly identified material risks and
opportunities as well as any issues identified that, due to their material nature, require immediate
reporting are also reported outside the regular half-yearly reporting stream on an ad hoc basis to the
Executive Board. To further improve the risk culture at adidas, we are also offering a risk management
training to all our employees through our company intranet.
COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ADIDAS FAIR PLAY)
⌐
We consider compliance with the law as well as with external and internal regulations to be imperative.
The Executive Board sets the tone from the top, and every employee is required to act ethically and in
compliance with the law as well as with internal and other external regulations while executing the
company’s business. We believe adidas Fair Play will prevent a majority of potential compliance issues.
For that reason, we have specific measures to detect and respond to any concerns. We realize, however,
that no compliance system can eliminate all violations.
The adidas Chief Compliance Officer oversees the company’s Compliance Management System (CMS). We
see compliance as all-encompassing, spanning all business functions throughout the entire value chain.
Our central Compliance team works closely with Regional Compliance Managers and Local Compliance
Officers to conduct a systematic assessment of key compliance risks on a yearly basis. In addition, the
central Compliance team regularly conducts compliance reviews within selected entities.
The company’s CMS is based on the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. It refers to the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and is designed to:
(6827) support the achievement of qualitative and sustainable growth through good corporate governance,
(6827) reduce and mitigate the risk of financial losses or damage caused by non-compliant conduct,
(6827) protect and further enhance the value and reputation of the company and its brand through compliant
conduct, and
(6827) support ‘Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion’ (‘DEI’) initiatives by fighting harassment and discrimination.
163 
1 2 3 4 5
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
The adidas Fair Play Code of Conduct is accessible on our website, includes guidelines for employee
behavior in everyday work, and is applicable globally for all business areas. In 2020, we revised the Code of
¬
Conduct to ensure it remains up to date and reflects our business environment.
► ADIDAS-GROUP.COM/S/CODE-OF-CONDUCT
⌐
The Fair Play Code of Conduct and our CMS are organized around three pillars: prevent, detect, and
respond.
(6827) Prevention: The Compliance team regularly reviews and updates the CMS as necessary. In addition to
the revised Fair Play Code of Conduct mentioned above, we also support all initiatives to prevent and
fight harassment and discrimination in the workplace. Management also shares compliance-related
communication, and the Compliance department provides mandatory training to all employees globally
during onboarding and in regular, repeated cycles. The Compliance team and partners also provide
targeted in-person compliance training as appropriate with senior management and newly promoted
or hired senior executives across the globe in order to further enhance the compliance ‘tone from the
top,’ as well as the ‘tone from the middle.’ We closely monitor the completion rates for these training
measures. We also focused on further enhancing cooperation between the Compliance team and the
Internal Audit, the Group Policies and Internal Controls, and the Risk Management department.
(6827) Detection: adidas has whistleblowing procedures in place to ensure timely detection of potential
infringements of statutory regulations or internal guidelines. Employees can report compliance
concerns internally to their supervisor, the Chief Compliance Officer, Regional Compliance Managers
or Local Compliance Officers, the relevant HR Manager, or, where applicable, the Works Council.
Employees can also report externally via the independent, confidential Fair Play hotline and website,
which also allow for anonymous complaints. The Fair Play hotline and website are available at all times
worldwide, including the services of interpreters, if required. They are promoted digitally and with
posters to reach all our locations around the world. The company’s work to identify potential
compliance violations continued in 2022.
(6827) Response: Appropriate and timely response to compliance violations is essential. The Chief
Compliance Officer leads all investigations in cooperation with an established team of Regional
Compliance Managers and a global network of Local Compliance Officers. We track, monitor, and
report potential incidents of non-compliance worldwide. In 2022, we recorded 521 potential compliance
violations (2021: 485). Most importantly, insights gained from the investigation of past violations are
used to continuously improve the CMS. Where necessary, we react promptly to confirmed compliance
violations, through appropriate and effective sanctions ranging from warnings to termination of
employment contracts. In addition, in 2022, the Compliance team strengthened its relationship with the
Employee Relations (ER) organization, a key partner in many compliance matters, especially those
related to harassment and discrimination.
POTENTIAL COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS

Malfeasance, including conflicts of interest and corruption 1cases in 2022 and 2021 9 21


Anonymous contact to hotline 55 in 2022 and 47 in 2021
Named contact to hotline 26 30 in 2022 and 2021
Compliance Officer and other 18 23 in 2022 and in 2021
The company’s Chief Compliance Officer regularly reports to the Executive Board on the further
development of the compliance program and on major compliance cases. In addition, the Chief
Compliance Officer reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis. In 2022, the Chief Compliance
Officer attended four meetings of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board to report on the further
development of the compliance program, major compliance cases, and other relevant compliance topics.
The Compliance department has revised its process for detecting compliance risks and included new
risks, as well as captured some risk areas (e.g., e-commerce) more clearly. In addition, the description of
¬
the CMS has been sharpened.
DESCRIPTION OF THE MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PROCESS
PURSUANT TO § 315 SECTION 4 GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE (HANDELSGESETZBUCH – HGB)
The accounting-related internal control and risk management system of the company represents a
process embedded within the company-wide corporate governance system. It aims to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of the company’s external financial reporting by ensuring company-
wide compliance with statutory accounting regulations, in particular the International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and internal consolidated financial reporting policies (Finance Manual). We regard the
internal control and risk management system as a process based on the principle of segregation of duties,
encompassing various sub-processes in the areas of Accounting, Controlling, Taxes, Treasury, Planning,
Reporting, and Legal, focusing on the identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring, and reporting of
financial reporting risks. Clearly defined responsibilities are assigned to each distinct sub-process. In a
first step, the internal control and risk management system serves to identify, assess, limit, and control
risks identified in the consolidated financial reporting process that might result in the consolidated
financial statements not being compliant with internal and external regulations.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICoFR) serves to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. To monitor the
effectiveness of ICoFR, the Group Policies and Internal Controls department and the Internal Audit
department regularly review accounting-related processes. Additionally, as part of the year-end audit, the
external auditor assesses the effectiveness of selected internal controls, including IT controls. The Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board also monitors the effectiveness of ICoFR.
All adidas companies are required to comply with the consolidated financial reporting policies (Finance
Manual), which are available to all employees involved in the financial reporting process through the
company-wide intranet. We update the Finance Manual on a regular basis, dependent on regulatory
changes and internal developments. Changes to the Finance Manual are promptly communicated to all
adidas companies. Clear policies serve to limit employees’ scope of discretion with regard to recognition
and valuation of assets and liabilities, thus reducing the risk of inconsistent accounting practices within
the company. We aim to ensure compliance with the Finance Manual through continuous adherence to the
four-eyes principle in accounting-related processes. In addition, the local manager responsible for the
accounting-related process within the respective company and the respective local Managing Director
confirm adherence to the Finance Manual and to IFRS in a signed representation letter to the Accounting
department semi-annually.
165 
1 2 3 4 5
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
The accounting for adidas companies is conducted either locally or by our Global Business Services.
Virtually all the IT Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems used are based on a company-wide
standardized SAP system. Following approval by the Finance Director of the respective adidas company,
the local financial statements are transferred to a central consolidation system based on SAP SEM-BCS.
At the corporate level, the regularity and reliability of the financial statements prepared by adidas
companies are reviewed by the Accounting and Controlling departments. These reviews include automated
validations in the system as well as the creation of reports and analyses to ensure data integrity and
adherence to the reporting logic. In addition, differences between current-year and prior-year financial
data as well as budget figures are analyzed on a market level. If necessary, adidas seeks the opinion of
independent experts to review business transactions that occur infrequently and on a non-routine basis.
After ensuring data plausibility, the centrally coordinated and monitored consolidation process begins,
running automatically on SAP SEM-BCS. Controls within the individual consolidation steps, such as those
relating to the consolidation of debt or of income and expenses, are conducted both manually and system-
based, using automatically created consolidation logs. Any inadequacies are remedied manually by
systematically processing the individual errors as well as differences and are reported back to the adidas
companies. After finalization of all consolidation steps, all items in the consolidated income statement and
in the consolidated statement of financial position are analyzed with respect to trends and variances.
Unless already otherwise clarified, the adidas companies are asked to explain any identified material
deviations.
All financial systems used are protected against malpractice by means of appropriate authorization
concepts, approval concepts, and access restrictions. Access authorizations are reviewed on a regular
basis and updated if required. The risk of data loss or outage of accounting-related IT systems is
minimized through central control and monitoring of virtually all IT systems, centralized management of
change processes, and regular data backups.
Furthermore, the adidas internal control and risk management system includes non-accounting-related
controls which serve to provide reasonable assurance regarding the effectiveness and efficiency of
operations, reliability of non-financial reporting, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The
internal control and risk management system regarding the non-accounting-related activities focuses also
on the identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring, and reporting of relevant risks. It is as well
embedded within the company-wide corporate governance system and encompasses various sub-
processes in the areas of Brands, Operations (including Procurement and IT), Sales, or Human Resources.
All adidas companies are also required to comply with the non-accounting-related policies (‘Policy
Manual’), which are available to all employees involved in the various processes through the company-
wide intranet and are updated and communicated on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of the non-accounting-related controls is also regularly monitored by the Group Policies
and Internal Controls department and the Internal Audit department. The reporting of internal control
results to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board includes the effectiveness of non-accounting-
related controls as well.
Nothing came to our attention that would cause us to doubt the appropriateness and effectiveness of the
entire internal control and risk management system. However, due to the limitations of any internal
control and risk management system, absolute certainty about the appropriateness and effectiveness of
these systems cannot be guaranteed.31
31 The statement in relation to German Corporate Governance Code A5 was not audited in terms of content as part of the audit of this Group Management

TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
performance. In addition, global competition for highly qualified personnel remains fierce. As a result, the
loss of key personnel in strategic positions and the inability to identify, recruit, and retain highly qualified
and skilled talent who best meet the specific needs of our company pose risks to our business
performance.
We are taking various measures to ensure that we maintain a culture that fosters ‘DEI.’ Through several
specialized programs, ‘DEI’ is embedded into our recruitment processes. Our ‘Global DEI Council’ drives
the increase of representation, retention, and advancement of diverse talents within our global workforce.
Furthermore, our workforce takes part in ‘DEI’ learning programs. To ensure effective leadership across
the company we offer a portfolio of leadership development experiences designed for every level of
management across all markets and functions. To optimize staffing levels and resource allocation (i.e.,
having the right people with the right skillsets in the right roles at the right time), we adjust resource
allocation where required to reflect developments in business performance, the economic environment
and our company’s strategic priorities. Organizational transformations and reorganizations are supported
by change activations with our leadership teams and organizational design consultancy. We continuously
invest in improving employer branding activities, and our global recruiting organization constantly
enhances our internal and external recruiting services and capabilities. Our global succession
management helps create internal talent pipelines for critical leadership positions and therefore reduces
succession risk.
RISKS RELATED TO MEDIA AND STAKEHOLDER ACTIVITIES
Adverse or inaccurate media coverage on our products or business practices as well as negative social
media discussion may significantly harm adidas’ reputation and brand image, lead to public misperception
of the company’s business performance and eventually result in a sales slowdown. Similarly, certain
activities on the part of key stakeholders (e.g., non-governmental organizations, governmental institutions)
could cause reputational damage, distract top management, and disrupt business activities. Despite the
termination of the adidas Yeezy partnership in 2022, due to its former size and relevance, related
stakeholder reactions and negative media coverage could still be possible.
To mitigate these risks, we pursue proactive, open communication and engagement with key stakeholders
(e.g., consumers, media, the financial community, non-governmental organizations, governmental
institutions) on a continuous basis. In addition, we have established clear crisis communication processes
to ensure a quick and effective response to adverse developments. We have also strengthened social
media capabilities and created various digital newsrooms around the globe that enable continuous
monitoring of social media content related to the company’s products and activities and allow early
management of potentially damaging social media discussion. On a case-by-case basis, we seek external
advice from experts in communication and stakeholder management.
IT AND CYBER SECURITY RISKS
Theft, leakage, corruption, or unavailability of critical information (e.g., consumer data, employee data,
product data) and systems could lead to reputational damage, regulatory penalties, or the inability to
perform key business processes. Key business processes, including product marketing, order
management, warehouse management, invoice processing, customer support, and financial reporting, are
all dependent on IT systems. Significant outages, application failures, or cyber security threats to our
infrastructure, or that of our business partners, could therefore result in reputational damage, regulatory
penalties, or cause considerable business disruption or impact to business-critical data.
To mitigate these risks, our IT organization proactively engages in system preventive maintenance, service
continuity planning, adherence to IT policies and maintenance of a comprehensive information security
program. Information security governance, data security, security architecture design, continuity


TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT – CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
OUR COMPANY FINANCIAL REVIEW STATEMENTS
management, and employee awareness programs help us to protect the company adequately. We have
also secured limited insurance coverage for damage resulting from cyber security incidents.
BUSINESS PARTNER RISKS
adidas interacts and enters into partnerships with various third parties, such as athletes, creative
partners, innovation partners, retail partners, or suppliers of goods or services. As a result, the company
is exposed to a multitude of business partner risks.
We work with strategic partners in various areas of our business (e.g., product creation, manufacturing,
research, and development) or distributors in a few selected markets whose approach might differ from
our own business practices and standards, which could also negatively impact the company’s business
performance and reputation. Similarly, failure to maintain strong relationships with our partners could
negatively impact the company’s sales and profitability. Risks may also arise from a dependency on
particular partners. For example, the overdependency on a supplier or customer increases the company’s
vulnerability to delivery and sales shortfalls, respectively, and could lead to significant margin pressure.
Business partner default (including insolvency) or other disruptive events such as strikes may negatively
affect the company’s business activities and result in additional costs and liabilities as well as lower sales
for the company. Unethical business practices or improper behavior on the part of business partners could
have a negative spillover effect on the company’s reputation, lead to higher costs or liabilities or even
disrupt business activities.
To mitigate business partner risks, adidas has implemented various measures. For example, we generally
include clauses in contractual agreements with partners that allow us to suspend or even terminate our
partnership in case of improper or unethical conduct. In addition, we work with a broad portfolio of
promotion partners to reduce the dependency on the success and popularity of a few individual partners.
We utilize a broad distribution strategy, which includes further expansion of our direct-to-consumer
business to reduce the risk of overreliance on key customers. Specifically, no single customer accounted
for more than 5% of the company’s sales in 2022. To reduce risk in the supply chain, we work with
suppliers who demonstrate reliability, quality, and innovation. Furthermore, in order to minimize any
potential negative consequences such as a violation of our Workplace Standards by our suppliers, we
enforce strict control and inspection procedures at our suppliers and also demand adherence to social and
environmental standards throughout our supply chain. In addition, we have selectively bought insurance
coverage for the risk of business interruptions caused by physical damage to suppliers’ premises. To
reduce supplier dependency, the company follows a strategy of diversification. In this context, adidas
works with a broad network of suppliers in different countries and, for the vast majority of its products,
does not have a single-sourcing model.
COMPLIANCE RISKS
As a globally operating company, adidas is subject to various laws and regulations. Non-compliance with
such laws and regulations could lead to penalties and fines and cause reputational damage. For example,
non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning data protection and privacy, such as the EU General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), may result in substantial fines. In addition, publication of failure to
comply with data protection and privacy regulations could cause reputational damage and result in a loss
of consumer trust in our brands. We also face the risk that members of top management as well as our
employees breach rules and standards that guide appropriate and responsible business behavior. This
includes the risks of fraud, financial misstatements or manipulation, anti-competitive business practices,
bribery, corruption, discrimination, and harassment in the workplace.
Our Compliance Management System (CMS) helps us to prevent, detect, and adequately respond to these
risks. Our Global Policy Manual provides a framework for basic work procedures and processes, and our
Fair Play Code of Conduct stipulates that every employee and our business partners shall act ethically in
