The Management’s Report comprises the chapter of the
same name on pages 16 to 167, as well as the disclosures
required by takeover law and the Declaration of Corporate
Governance. These are presented in the Corporate Gover-
nance chapter. The Nonfinancial Statement (NFS) is inte-
grated into the Management’s Report.
NFS in accordance with sections 315b and 315c of the
German Commercial Code (HGB)
The NFS disclosures can be found in the relevant sections of the
Management’s Report and have been prepared in accordance
with the appropriate frameworks: the Global Reporting Initiative
Standards and the reporting requirements of the U.N. Global
Compact. The table on the following page shows the sections and
subsections in which the individual disclosures can be found. In
addition to a description of the business model, the NFS includes
disclosures on the following matters, to the extent that they are
required to understand the development and performance of the
business, the Group’s position and the impact of business
development on the following matters: environmental matters,
employee-related matters, social matters, respect for human rights,
anti-corruption and bribery matters.
In accordance with the E.U. Taxonomy Regulation and the supple-
mentary delegated acts, the NFS includes the proportion of the
Group’s taxonomy-eligible and, for the first time, our Group-wide
taxonomy-aligned turnover, capital expenditures (including acquisi-
tions and excluding goodwill in accordance with the E.U. taxonomy)
and operating expenditures for the 2022 business year. This
applies to the environmental objectives of climate change mitigation
and adaptation to climate change currently addressed in the E.U.
taxonomy.
Within the scope of the annual audit, KPMG checked pursuant to
section 317(2) sentence 4 HGB that the NFS was presented in
accordance with the statutory requirements. KPMG also conducted
a limited assurance of the NFS. An assurance statement of the
limited assurance can be found online at basf.com/nfs-audit-2022.
The assurance was conducted in accordance with ISAE 3000
(Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Financial Information) and ISAE 3410 (Assurance Engagements on
Greenhouse Gas Statements), the relevant international assurance
standards for sustainability reporting.
Disclosures required by takeover law in accordance with
section 315a HGB
The disclosures required by takeover law in accordance with section
315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB) can be found in the
Corporate Governance chapter starting on page 168. They form
part of the Management’s Report, which is audited as part of the
annual audit.
Compensation Report
The Compensation Report in accordance with section 162 of the
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) is publicly available on the
BASF website together with the assurance statement of the sub-
stantive and formal audit issued by the auditor.
The Compensation Report is available online at basf.com/compensationreport
Declaration of Corporate Governance in accordance with
section 315d HGB in connection with section 289f HGB
The Consolidated Declaration of Corporate Governance in accor-
dance with section 315d HGB in connection with section 289f HGB
can be found in the Corporate Governance chapter from page 194
onward and is a component of the Management’s Report. It comprises the Corporate Governance Report, including the
description of the diversity concept for the composition of the Board
of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board (excluding the
disclosures required by takeover law in accordance with section
315a HGB), compliance reporting and the Declaration of Conformity
pursuant to section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act.
Pursuant to section 317(2) sentence 6 HGB, the auditor checked
that the disclosures according to section 315d HGB were made.
Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures
BASF supports the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Disclosures recommended by
the TCFD are presented in a number of places throughout this
report. The table on page 19 shows the sections and subsections in
which the relevant information can be found. The table is divided
into four key areas in line with the TCFD recommendations: gover-
nance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.
Symbols, captions and QR codes
You can find more information in this report.
You can find more information online. The content of these
links are voluntary disclosures that were not audited by the
auditor.
The content of this section is not part of the statutory audit but
has undergone a separate limited assurance by our auditor.
The content of this section is voluntary, unaudited information,
which was critically read by the auditor.
Captions, links and the information contained on linked websites,
and QR codes are not part of the audit.
Together with our Code of Conduct and our global standards, our
CORE values lay the foundation for responsible conduct and trust-
based relationships with our stakeholders. They define how we want
to work together – as a team, with our customers and our partners:
– C – creative: We make great products and solutions for our
customers. This is why we embrace bold ideas and give them
space to grow. We act with optimism and inspire one another.
– O – open: We value diversity, in people, opinions and experience.
This is why we foster feedback based on honesty, respect and
mutual trust. We learn from setbacks.
– R – responsible: We value the health and safety of people above
all else. We make sustainability part of every decision. We are
committed to strict compliance and environmental standards.
– E – entrepreneurial: We focus on our customers, as individuals
and as a company. We seize opportunities and think ahead. We
take ownership and embrace personal accountability.
Our standards are based on, and in some cases, exceed existing
laws and regulations and take internationally recognized principles
into account. We respect and promote:
– The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two U.N.
Human Rights Covenants
– The 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact
– The core labor standards of the ILO and the Tripartite Declaration
of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social
Policy
– The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
– The Responsible Care® Global Charter
– The German Corporate Governance Code
We stipulate binding rules for our employees with our standards and
guidelines that apply throughout the Group. Our aim is to prevent
compliance violations from the outset through compulsory training
for all employees and special training for leaders. The Corporate
Audit department continuously monitors compliance with require-
ments. We regularly assess our performance in environmental
protection, health and safety as part of our Responsible Care
Management System. We realize our responsibility to behave in
accordance with international and social standards largely in three
ways: through our Compliance Program, including our Code of
Conduct and compliance hotlines, through close dialog with stake-
holders and through the global management process to respect
international labor norms. We pursue sustainability-oriented supply
chain management and expect our business partners to comply
with prevailing laws, regulations and internationally recognized
principles. Here, too, we have established appropriate monitoring
systems.
For more information on human and labor rights, see page 109 onward
For more information on compliance, see page 179 onward
For more information on responsible procurement and the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act,
see page 114 onward
For more information on the Responsible Care Management System, see page 123 onward
o other environmental objectives were reviewed in a three-step
process. The first step involved a two-part analysis based on
BASF’s internal product databases:
– The manufacture of products is analyzed with respect to the
use of critical substances in accordance with Annex C1 of the
E.U. Commission’s Delegated Regulation 2021/2139 to ensure
significant pollution prevention or control according to the E.U.
taxonomy. This also includes use in the production process. An
assessment of the “essential use” of the critical substances used
in the sense of the opening clauses according to Annex C,
letters f) and g) has not been performed. The E.U. Commission
announced further regulations on this in 2023.
– Plastics in primary form are analyzed with respect to the share of
renewable raw materials in the product. They are only considered
further if this share is at least 5% and thus potentially make a
substantial contribution to climate change mitigation through
partial or complete production from renewable raw materials.
Shares allocated using mass balance approaches (see page 121)
are not taken into account here because their acceptance under
the E.U. taxonomy has not yet been definitively clarified. For this
reason, BASF products based on chemically recycled raw mate-
rials are not considered further in the assessment at present
either. Mechanical recycling does not play any role for BASF here.
In the second step, it was assessed whether the potentially tax-
onomy-aligned products make a substantial contribution to climate
change mitigation in accordance with the activity-specific criteria.
Among other things, the greenhouse gas emissions of European
and non-European plants to produce soda ash, organic basic
chemicals and nitric acid were compared with the average values of
the most efficient plants under the E.U. emissions trading system.
For the production of hydrogen, chlorine, ammonia and plastics in
primary form, the comparison was against activity-specific quantita-
tive criteria, such as the energy or emission intensity of a product.
This was based on a digital solution developed by BASF to deter-
mine product-specific carbon emissions (see page 140).
1 Generic criteria for DNSH to pollution prevention and control regarding use and presence of chemicals
2 Protection of water and marine resources is taken as given at sites that do not use or treat water.
3 A radius of 3 km around production sites was defined for the analysis of biodiversity-sensitive areas.
Finally, in the third step of the process, it was assessed whether the
products identified cause significant harm to the other environmental
objectives. This included an analysis of risks arising from climate
change using climate risk and vulnerability assessments. At sites
with material climate risk, the existence of adaptation solutions was
additionally analyzed and evaluated. The avoidance of significant
harm to water and marine resources,2 biodiversity and ecosystems,3
and pollution prevention and control were taken as given for produc-
tion plants in Europe based on comprehensive and uniform regula-
tory requirements and additionally ensured through data queries.
The conformity of non-European plants was assessed on a case-
by-case basis. This was based on joint assessments by local and
central experts using the evidence of local production requirements
submitted.
The criteria for the minimum social safeguards as a further pillar
of taxonomy alignment in accordance with Article 18 of the E.U.
Taxonomy Regulation were reviewed for all activities across the
BASF Group, independent of the step-by-step process for the
“contribution to climate change mitigation” and “harm to other
environmental objectives” criteria.
The recommendations of the E.U. Platform on Sustainable Finance
of October 2022 on the four core topics of human rights (including
labor rights), corruption/bribery, taxation and fair competition were
taken into account here. Minimum social safeguards are to be
ensured by a systematic, integrated and risk-based approach
to safeguarding our human rights due diligence obligations (see
page 109), by global labor and social standards (see page 110), and
by the Supplier Code of Conduct (see page 115), among other things.
Taxonomy-aligned turnover accounted for 0.4% of the total sales
revenue defined and reported in the BASF Group’s Consolidated
Financial Statements in 2022. The “manufacture of organic basic
chemicals” made the largest contribution (0.3%). Taxonomy-aligned
capital expenditures (including acquisitions and excluding goodwill
in accordance with the E.U. taxonomy) accounted for 0.5% of the
96
total investments reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The “manufacture of soda ash” contributed significantly here with
0.3%. Taxonomy-aligned operating expenditures accounted for
0.9% of total operating expenditures, with the largest contribution
from the economic activity “manufacture of plastics in primary form”
(0.5%). It is not possible to provide information on changes
in taxonomy-aligned turnover, capital expenditures and operating
expenditures as these are being reported for the first time in 2022.
The taxonomy-aligned figure is significantly lower than the tax-
onomy-eligible figure due to various factors. Only a small proportion
of plastics in primary form contain a share of renewable raw materials
above the threshold value. In many production processes, sub-
stances that fall within Annex C1 are used to prevent or reduce
pollution. As a result, these processes are no longer taxonomy-
aligned, even if the substances are not released into the environment
(for example, because they are exclusively used in a closed system
in the production plant) and are used in accordance with existing
chemicals legislation. This means, for example, that all production
processes for the manufacture of battery materials must be
assessed as not taxonomy-aligned. The proportion of taxonomy-
aligned activities is also reduced by the fact that many plants
exceed the benchmarks used by the E.U. taxonomy, such as the
E.U. emissions trading scheme. In addition, plants that are not
subject to emissions trading and thus cannot be assessed using the
specified criteria were generally classified as not taxonomy-aligned.
For more information on sales revenue, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements from
page 227 onward
For more information on investments, see Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
from page 242 onward.
GRI 2, 3, 406, 407, 408, 409, 411, 413
SUPPLIERS BASF CUSTOMERS
BASF acknowledges its responsibility to respect internationally recognized human rights. For many years
now, we have engaged in constructive dialog on human rights with other companies, nongovernmental
organizations, international organizations and multi-stakeholder initiatives to better understand different
perspectives and address conflicting goals. BASF is a founding member of the U.N. Global Compact and
a member of the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI)
▪ Human rights due diligence as a Group-wide task
▪ Systematic and extensive anchoring of human rights topics in
company processes and culture
▪ Commitment to respecting international labor and social
standards enshrined in our global Code of Conduct
▪ Chief Human Rights Officer appointed to oversee human rights
risk management
Strategy and organization
We see human rights due diligence as an important, all-encom-
passing task that we can only perform by working together as a
team throughout the entire organization. That is why we have
embedded our responsibility for human rights into our Code of re committed to complying with international labor and social
standards.
We rely on a systematic, integrated, risk-based approach and
established monitoring and management systems. BASF is also
active in initiatives such as Together for Sustainability (TfS) and
Responsible Care®, which promote sustainability in the supply chain.
Our measures and criteria for monitoring and respecting human
rights are integrated into supplier assessment processes and our
global monitoring systems for environmental protection, safety and
security, health protection and product stewardship (see page 114).
They are also part of the evaluation of investment, acquisition and
divestiture projects, assessments along the entire product life cycle,
and systems to monitor labor and social standards. In addition,
aspects of human rights topics are part of the global qualification
requirements for security personnel and are incorporated into
standard agreements with contractors.
and refine our approach to human rights governance. It includes employees from specialist departments - Corporate Compliance (coordination), Global Procurement, Corporate Legal, Corporate Human Resources, Environmental Protection, Health, Safety and Quality, Corporate Strategy & Sustainability, Corporate Security, Digital and Procurement Governance, Corporate Communications and Governmental Relations - and our operating divisions. The expert working group provides support and advice in challenging and critical situations, on the development of internal processes, and on the creation of information and training offerings, among other things. In this way, we want to ensure that we approach our human rights responsibility holistically and that we can continually improve our performance.
nternational labor and social standards
Our aim of acting responsibly toward our employees is embedded in
our global Code of Conduct through our voluntary commitment to
respecting international labor and social standards. This encom-
passes internationally recognized labor norms as stipulated in the
United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and the Tripartite Declara-
tion of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social
Policy of the International Labour Organization (ILO). In order to
meet the requirement to comply with these standards worldwide,
we mainly approach our adherence to international labor and social
standards using three elements: the Compliance Program (including
compliance hotlines), close dialog with our stakeholders (such as
with employee representatives or international organizations) and
the BASF guideline on compliance with international labor norms,
which applies Group-wide. This guideline concretizes the topics in
our global Code of Conduct under “Human rights, labor and social
standards” as these relate to our employees. In 2022, an additional
guideline specified that these topics must also be considered and
applied when working with temporary employees and freelancers.
It forms the basis for our global, risk-based management process:
We regularly monitor changes to the national law of all the countries.
in which BASF operates and evaluate our adherence to international labor and social standards. If the national law contains no or lower requirements, action plans are drawn up to successively close these gaps in a reasonable time frame. If conflicts with national law or practices arise, we strive to act in accordance with our values and
internationally recognized principles without violating the law of the country concerned. As part of the management process, we regularly follow up on and document the results of the comparison
Cooperation along our value chains
between national law and our guideline, as well as measures to implement the We monitor our voluntary commitment to international labor and are states that do not honor their obligation to protect human rights. social standards as part of our management process. As before,
People are particularly at risk in such countries, and companies'
individual elements of the guideline are also reviewed as part of ability to act is often very limited. Here, too, we are committed to our internal control processes such as Responsible Care audits at values and contribute to the respect of human rights.
BASF Group companies. In addition to these quality assurance
Good to know
Human Rights Advisory Council
We have trustful working relationships with our partners (customers, suppliers, joint venture partners, contractors), expect them to comply with internationally recognized human rights standards and to expect the same of their partners further along the value chain. We work to ensure that our partners meet their respective responsibilities.
We established a Human Rights Advisory Council in 2020 to integrate external expertise. Its members include independent international human rights experts. The trust-based dialog on human rights topics helos us to better understand different perspectives and to deal more openly with critical situations.
The meetings held in 2022, which were chaired by our Chief Compliance Officer. were attended by representatives from the Corporate Compliance and Corporate Strategv & Sustainability departments as well as other experts from the operating divisions or procurement as required. We maintained our dialog with the Human Rights Advisory Council in 2022, both with the body as a whole and in small groups. The Council provided an external perspective, for example, on the further development of our human rights position. on due diligence in challenaina circum-We can only achieve our goal of strengthening respect for human rights along our value chains if we work together. We have clearly defined our expectations in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are in close contact with our business partners, especially in higher-risk areas and regions. and monitor the implementation of relevant standards and necessar measures for improvement. We use recognized assessments and audits to verify this. In 2022, we continued our work with our upstream supply chain, where we usually have no direct contractual relationships, less transparency and less influence. Here, we seek to increase our influence through collaboration with partners and stakeholders, and place importance on certifications such as the LBMA certificate for gold, the LPPM certificate for platinum group metals, and the Responsible Minerals Initiative's Responsible Minerals Assurance Process.
e work together with partners, civil society and in cross-sector
initiatives. These include the Global Battery Alliance and the Round-
table on Sustainable Palm Oil. Projects often start on the ground to
build specific expertise for sustainable and responsible supply
chains. Examples include the Sustainable Castor Initiative – Pragati
in India, the Responsible Lithium Partnership Initiative in Chile, the
Responsible Mica Initiative in India and the Cobalt for Development
pilot mining project in the Democratic Republic of Congo. In 2022,
BASF, Syngenta and Arisa also worked together on a multi-stake-
holder initiative in the vegetable seeds business in India. The initia-
tive, WISH (Wage Improvements in Seed Hybrids), addresses the
issue of child labor and compliance with minimum wage.
For more information on standards in our supply chain, see page 114 onward
For more information on raw materials, see page 117 onward
Further development of our organization and processes
We again initiated various measures to further strengthen our
organization and processes in 2022. These measures are also
important against the background of new regulations, especially the
German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (SCA). These include the
appointment of BASF’s Chief Human Rights Officer and the further
development of our Policy Statement on Human Rights, including
further explanations of our approach to human rights due diligence
and priority risks for our company. Both of these measures were
approved by the Board of Executive Directors in November 2022.
To strengthen due diligence in the supply chain, we have also
enhanced and refined a range of measures, including supplier risk
analysis as well as preventive measures such as the systematic
business partner due diligence for new suppliers, our Supplier Code
of Conduct, and the requirements to be embedded in suppliers’
contracts. We continue to expect our suppliers to enforce our
standards at their suppliers and subcontractors, too. Furthermore,
the rights of third-party workers in high-risk countries will be even
better protected in the future through additional due diligence steps.
These include risk-based controls and measures that promote
transparency and awareness of human rights issues.
We have also been able to analyze and confirm BASF’s compliance
with the specific environmental treaties covered by the SCA
(Minamata, Stockholm, Basel) in countries that have not yet ratified
these conventions. Promoting awareness of human rights was again a focus topic
in 2022. Workshop programs on this were held in our operating
divisions. In addition, employees in all regions were informed about
and sensitized to human rights topics through presentations and
discussion formats for specific target groups.
Our grievance mechanisms, which we already improved in 2021
with the introduction of a standardized global hotline and reporting
system, were also used in 2022. A total of 151 human rights-related
complaints were received by phone as well as by post and e-mail
(2021: 206). All complaints were reviewed and forwarded to the
relevant departments for in-depth investigation. If justified, appro-
priate measures were taken. The 65 closed and justified cases were
primarily harassment cases, followed by cases of discrimination.
Our grievance channels did not identify any instances of child labor
or forced labor.
We report on our global targets, monitoring systems and measures
to integrate human rights topics into our business activities in publi-
cations such as this report and online.
For more information on our production standards, see page 125 onward
See basf.com/humanrights for more information on the Policy Statement on Human Rights and a
comprehensive report on the implementation of due diligence in accordance with the requirements
of the National Action Plan developed by the German government, and in accordance with the
U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
For more information on the Human Rights Advisory Council, see basf.com/human-rights-council
We Source Responsibly
As a global business, we have a responsibility to manage our supply chains carefully. We connect with our
suppliers to source raw materials responsibly. Our partnerships with suppliers are based on mutual value
creation, as well as a reliable supply of raw materials, technical goods and services at competitive prices.
114
In this section:
Supplier Management
Raw Materials
Code of Conduct or the systematic risk-oriented assessment and
auditing of suppliers, remain important elements and have been
updated accordingly.
Procurement guidelines and targets are set centrally by the
responsible Corporate Center unit and are binding for all employees
with procurement responsibility worldwide. We use a multi-stage
control process to ensure compliance with these requirements.
Our risk-based approach aims to identify and evaluate sustainability
matters in our value chains as best possible to improve sustainability
performance together with our suppliers. We regularly review and
document progress based on the risk level. Procurement employees
receive regular training in sustainability-oriented supplier manage-
ment and responsible procurement. In 2022, around 1,400 employees
received such training, covering the requirements arising from
the SCA.
Supplier Management
GRI 2, 3, 204, 304, 308, 403, 407, 408, 409, 414
SUPPLIERS BASF
CUSTOMERS
Strategy and governance
Our procurement organization ensures a reliable supply of raw
materials, energy, precursors, technical goods and services to
BASF. Alongside economic and qualitative criteria, we also take
environmental, social and ethical aspects into account in cooperating
with our suppliers.2
BASF sources many raw materials, precursors, technical
goods and services. Our suppliers are an important part of
our value chain. Our objective is to create competitive
advantages through our professional procurement structures,
to establish stable and reliable supply chains, and at the
Our sustainability-oriented supply chain management is an integral
same time, meet high ethical and environmental standards.
part of our risk management. We have defined our standards in a
Together with our suppliers, we want to improve sustainability
global guideline. We are continually refining and optimizing this
in the supply chain and minimize risks.
guideline and our structures and processes in response to changing
conditions, such as the new obligations arising from the German
Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (SCA), which requires large
€54 billion
global procurement spend
85%
of relevant spend1 covered by
sustainability evaluations
companies to conduct due diligence on human rights and certain
environmental standards in their supply chains from January 1,
2023. In principle, this applies both to our own business operations
and to direct and indirect suppliers. Based on a gap analysis of the
new statutory due diligence obligations, we have further strengthened
We depend on reliable and long-term supply relationships.
existing structures and processes and summarized our human
Our expectations of our suppliers are laid down in the global
rights positions in a policy statement (see page 109). The head
Supplier Code of Conduct. We support suppliers in improving their
of the legal and compliance organization was appointed Chief
sustainability performance, for example, through joint projects (see
Human Rights Officer in 2022 and is responsible in this capacity
page 119) or by helping them to address shortcomings. Another
for overseeing the supply chain risk management system. Our
example is our Supplier CO2 Management Program launched in
established supply chain management tools, such as our Supplier
2021, with which we aim to increase the transparency of upstream
We carefully analyze the results of our assessments and document
them in a central database. Over the past few years, we have
identified some need for adjustment at our suppliers with respect
to environmental, social and governance standards, for example
in waste management, or deviations in occupational health and
safety measures and standards under labor law. Follow-up audits
performed in 2022 identified improvements in these areas. Again in
2022, none of our audits identified any instances of forced labor,
out at Nornickel’s site in Polar, Russia, in the fourth quarter of 2021.
The results of these audits were discussed with Nornickel and
follow-up measures were evaluated. Nornickel continues to seek
membership in internationally recognized industry initiatives that
provide third-party verification of mining and responsible procurement
standards, such as IRMA or the International Council on Mining and
Metals (ICMM). However, this is only possible to a limited extent in
the current environment.
Together for Sustainability (TfS)
child labor or dangerous work and overtime performed by persons
Supplier development
BASF is a founding member of Together for Sustainability. The
initiative was established in 2011 to improve sustainability in the
supply chain. The focus is on the standardization, simplification
and mutual recognition of supplier audits and assessments.
Suppliers are evaluated by independent experts either in on-site
audits or online assessments. The latter are conducted by
EcoVadis, a ratings agency specialized in sustainability
evaluations. At the end of 2022, TfS had 40 members with a
combined procurement spend of around €400 billion. A total of
378 audits and 8,386 online assessments were performed in
2022. As a TfS member, BASF itself is assessed and in 2022
was again ranked among the top 1% companies worldwide in
the sustainable procurement category. BASF is involved in the
further development of TfS, for example, in activities to standardize
the calculation of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in the
supply chain (see page 139).
under 18.
We maintained close dialog with our South African platinum supplier
Sibanye-Stillwater1 in 2022 on the results of the audit from 2020,
the implementation of the resulting action plan, and other relevant
topics. This includes working with stakeholders to take a unified
approach to local community development. All the needs for
adjustment identified in the 2020 audit had been addressed by the
end of 2022. BASF and Sibanye-Stillwater have agreed that future
audits will follow the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance
(IRMA) mining standard. Sustainability topics are discussed on a
quarterly basis. Sibanye-Stillwater is a member and supporter of the
International Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA) sustainability
initiative that was co-founded by BASF. Measures include conducting
comprehensive sustainability audits and sharing factors for success.
The regular dialog with stakeholders continued in 2022. In addition,
Sibanye-Stillwater has directly involved relevant stakeholders in
Germany and South Africa in its own stakeholder dialog.
In 2022, the war of aggression in Ukraine also impacted the
business relationship with our Russian raw materials supplier
Nornickel. This could not be continued to the extent planned. We
nevertheless maintain regular dialog with Nornickel, are monitoring
the situation and events from a sustainability perspective, and are in
contact with civil society groups. Topics addressed include the
findings from the mining-specific TfS audits. TfS audits were carried
If supplier assessments identify deviations from standards, we ask
suppliers to develop and implement corrective measures within a
reasonable time frame in a clearly defined follow-up process. We
support them in their efforts. In South America, for example, over
300 employees of suppliers participated in a webinar on compliance
and human rights in the supply chain. Together with Mercedes-Benz,
we also organized a workshop in the region focusing on gender
equality, which was attended by 22 logistics service providers. An
important part of supplier development in 2022 was also the
sustainability webinars held by TfS together with EcoVadis in various
languages, with a total of over 1,900 participants. In addition, the
new TfS Academy online learning platform is aimed at buyers and
suppliers. It covers the entire spectrum of ESG topics. There are
currently over 335 courses available in 10 different languages.
We review our suppliers’ progress according to a defined time frame
based on the sustainability risk identified, or after five years at the
latest. In the case of serious violations of the standards defined in
our Supplier Code of Conduct or international principles, we reserve
the right to impose commercial sanctions. These can go as far as
termination of the business relationship. In 2022, this happened in
one case.
Good to know
1 In 2012, an extended strike at a platinum mine in Marikana, South Africa, culminated in a violent confrontation between mine workers and armed South African police. Employees of the former mine operator, Lonmin, were among the fatalities. Ownership 
Corporate Governance Report
GRI 2,3,405
Corporate governance refers to the entire system for managing and supervising a company. This includes its organization, values,
corporate principles and guidelines as well as internal and external control and monitoring mechanisms. Effective and transparent
corporate governance ensures that BASF is managed and supervised responsibly with a focus on value creation and sustainability.
It fosters the confidence of our investors, the financial markets, our customers  and other business partners, employees, other
groups affiliated with our company (stakeholders) as well as the public in BASF
The fundamental elements of BAS SE's corporate governance system are: its two-tier management system, with a transparent and effective separation of company management and supervision between BASF's Board of Executive Directors and the Supervisory Board; the equal representation of shareholders and employee representatives on the Supervisory Board; and the shareholders' rights of co-administration and supervision at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting.
Board of Executive Directors
At a glance
• Responsible for company management and represents
BASF SE in business with third parties
• Sets goals and strategic direction
• Strictly separate from the Supervisory Board
Direction and management by the Board of Executive
Directors
The Board of Executive Directors is responsible for managing the company and represents BASF SE in business undertakings with third parties. BAS's Board of Executive Directors is strictly separated from the Supervisory Board, which monitors the Board of Executive Directors' activities and decides on its composition. A member of the Board of Executive Directors cannot simultaneously
be a member of the Supervisory Board. As the central duty of company management, the Board of Executive Directors defines the corporate goals and strategic direction of the BASF Group as well as its individual business areas, including the sustainability strategy. In doing so, the Board ensures that the risks and opportunities associated with social and environmental factors for our company as well as the ecological and societal impacts of BASF's activities are systematically identified and evaluated. In addition to long-term economic goals, the corporate strategy appropriately takes environmental and social objectives into account, too. The corporate planning defined on this basis comprises financial and sustainability-related goals.
Furthermore, the Board of Executive Directors determines the company's internal organization and decides on the composition of management positions on the levels below the Board. It also manages and monitors BASF Group business by planning and setting the corporate budget, allocating resources and management capacities, monitoring and making decisions on significant individual measures, and supervising operational management.
The Board's actions and decisions are geared toward the company's best interests. It is committed to the goal of sustainably increasing the company's value and developing the company over the long term, taking into account environmental and social goals as well as economic targets. The Board's responsibilities include the preparation of the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements of BASF SE and reporting on the company's financial and nonfinancial performance as well as half-year and quarterly reporting. It must
also ensure that the company's activities comply with the applicable legislation and regulatory requirements, as well as internal corporate directives (compliance). This includes the establishment of appropriate systems for control, compliance and risk management as well as embedding a company-wide compliance culture with undisputed standards.
Decisions that are reserved for the Board as a whole by law, through the Board of Executive Directors' Rules of Procedure or through resolutions adopted by the Board, are made and all important matters of the company are discussed at regularly held Board meetings called by the chair of the Board of Executive Directors.
Board decisions are based on detailed information and analyses provided by the business areas and specialist units, and, if deemed necessary, by external consultants. The chair of the Board of Executive Directors leads the Board meetings. Board decisions can generally be made via a simple majority. In the case of a tied vote, the chair of the Board of Executive Directors gives the casting vote.
However, the chair of the Board of Executive Directors cannot enforce a decision against the Board of Executive Directors' majority vote. The chair of the Board also does not have the right to veto.
Outside of matters that are assigned to the entire Board for consultation and decision-making, all members of the Board of Executive Directors are authorized to make decisions individually in their designated areas of responsibility.
The Board of Executive Directors can set up Board committees to consult and decide on individual issues such as proposed material acquisition or divestiture prolects or to prepare decisions to be
made by the entire Board. These must include at least three
members of the Board of Executive Directors. For the preparation of
important decisions, such as those on acquisitions, divestitures,
investments and personnel, the Board has various commissions at
the level below the Board. Independently of the affected business
area, these committees thoroughly assess the planned measures
and evaluate the associated opportunities and risks. Based on this
information, they report and make recommendations to the Board.
The Board of Executive Directors informs the Supervisory Board
regularly, without delay and comprehensively, of all issues important
to the company with regard to planning, business development, risk
situation, risk management and compliance. Furthermore, the
Board of Executive Directors coordinates the company’s strategic
orientation with the Supervisory Board.
The Statutes of BASF SE and the Supervisory Board have defined
certain transactions that require the Board of Executive Directors to
obtain the Supervisory Board’s approval prior to their conclusion.
Such cases that require approval include the acquisition and
disposal of enterprises and parts of enterprises, as well as the issue
of bonds or comparable financial instruments. However, this is only
necessary if the acquisition or disposal price or the amount of the
issue in an individual case exceeds 3% of the equity reported in the
most recent approved Consolidated Financial Statements of the
BASF Group.
Competence profile, diversity concept and succession
planning for the Board of Executive Directors
The Supervisory Board works hand in hand with the Board of
Executive Directors to ensure long-term succession planning for the
composition of the Board of Executive Directors. BASF aims to fill
BASF SE’s two-tier management system
Board of Executive Directors
6 members
appointed by the Supervisory Board
Chair
appointed by the Supervisory Board
most Board positions with leaders from within the company. It is
the task of the Board of Executive Directors to propose a sufficient
number of suitable individuals to the Supervisory Board.
BASF’s long-term succession planning is guided by the corporate
strategy. It is based on systematic management development
characterized by the following:
– Early identification of suitable leaders of different professional
backgrounds, nationalities and genders
– Systematic development of leaders through the successful
assumption of tasks with increasing responsibility, where possible
in different business areas, regions and functions
– Desire to shape strategic and operational decisions and proven
success in doing so, as well as leadership skills, especially under
challenging business conditions
– Role model function in putting corporate values into practice
The aim is to enable the Supervisory Board to ensure a reasonable
level of diversity with respect to education and professional
Supervisory Board
12 members
appoints the Board of Executive Directors
monitors the Board of Executive Directors
advises the Board of Executive Directors
reports to Supervisory Board
6 shareholder representatives elected by the
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and
6 employee representatives
Chair
elected by the Supervisory Board
experience, cultural background, international representation,
gender and age when appointing members of the Board of Executive
Directors. Irrespective of these individual criteria, a holistic approach
will ultimately determine a person’s suitability for appointment to the
Board of Executive Directors of BASF SE. Both systematic
succession planning and the selection process aim to ensure that
the Board of Executive Directors as a whole has the following profile,
which serves as a diversity concept:
– Many years of leadership experience in scientific, technical and
commercial fields
– International experience based on background and/or professional
experience
– At least one female Board member
– A balanced age distribution to ensure the continuity of the Board’s
work and enable seamless succession planning
The first appointment of members of the Board of Executive
Directors is for a term of no more than three years. The standard age
limit for members of the Supervisory Board determines the number of members on the
Executive Directors, a high level of autonomy is already structurally
for the appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of
Board of Executive Directors. It is guided by insights gained
ensured with regard to the supervision of the Board of Executive
Executive Directors by the Supervisory Board. Resolutions can, as
by BASF as a company with an integrated leadership culture and
Directors.
needed, also be made in writing or through electronic communication
is determined by the needs arising from cooperation within the
outside of the meetings, as long as no Supervisory Board member
Board of Executive Directors. The Supervisory Board considers
In addition to the SE Regulation, the relevant legal basis for the size
objects to this form of passing a resolution. The Supervisory Board
six to be an appropriate number of Board members given the
and composition of the Supervisory Board is provided by the
meets regularly even without the Board of Executive Directors.
current business composition, future responsibilities associated
Statutes of BASF SE and the Agreement Concerning the Involvement
with development and the fundamental organizational structure of
of Employees in BASF SE (Employee Participation Agreement). The
The Board of Executive Directors regularly informs the Supervisory
the BASF Group.
latter also includes the regulations applicable to BASF for
Board about matters such as the course of business and expected
implementing the statutory gender quota for the Supervisory Board.
developments, the financial position and results of operations,
The current composition of the Board of Executive Directors meets
The German Codetermination Act does not apply to BASF SE as a
corporate planning, the implementation of the corporate strategy,
the competence profile and the requirements of the diversity concept
European stock corporation (Societas Europaea, SE).
including the sustainability strategy, business opportunities and
in full.
risks, as well as risk and compliance management. The Supervisory
Supervisory Board
▪ Appoints, monitors and advises Board of Executive Directors
▪ Four Supervisory Board committees
▪ Composition criteria: professional and personal qualifications,
diversity, and independence
The Supervisory Board of BASF SE comprises 12 members. Six
Board has embedded the main reporting requirements in an
members are elected by the shareholders at the Annual Shareholders’
information policy. The chair of the Supervisory Board is in regular
Meeting via a simple majority. Six members are elected by the BASF
contact with the Board of Executive Directors, especially with its
Europa Betriebsrat (BASF Works Council Europe), the European
chair, outside of meetings as well.
employee representation body of the BASF Group. In accordance
with the resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on June 18,
2020, the period of appointment for newly elected members of the
Supervisory Board was reduced from five to four years; and the
Statutes were amended accordingly. This ensures that the maximum
membership duration of 12 years up to which a Supervisory Board
member can be classified as independent corresponds to a total of
three election terms in accordance with the German Corporate
A list of the members of BASF SE’s Supervisory Board indicating which members are shareholder or
employee representatives and their appointments to the supervisory bodies of other companies can
be found from page 183 onward.
Compensation of the Supervisory Board is described in the Compensation Report at
basf.com/compensationreport
The Statutes of BASF SE and the Employee Participation Agreement can be found at basf.com/statutes
and basf.com/en/corporategovernance
Supervision of company management by the
Governance Code.
Personnel Committee
Supervisory Board
Meetings of the Supervisory Board and its four committees are
Members
The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Board of
called by their respective chairs and independently, at the request of
Dr. Kurt Bock* (chair)
Executive Directors and supervises and advises the Board of
one of their members or the Board of Executive Directors. The
Prof. Dr. Stefan Asenkerschbaumer* (since April 29, 2022)
Executive Directors on management issues. It must also be involved
shareholder and employee representatives of the Supervisory Board
Franz Fehrenbach (until April 29, 2022)
in making decisions that are of key importance for the company.
prepare for Supervisory Board meetings in separate preliminary
Sinischa Horvat*
This also includes the Board of Executive Directors’ consideration of
discussions in each case. Resolutions of the Supervisory Bord are
Michael Vassiliadis
sustainability issues with regard to corporate governance. The
passed by a simple majority vote of the participating Supervisory
Supervisory Board is also responsible for auditing BASF SE’s and
Board members. In the event of a tie, the vote of the chair of the
Duties
the Group’s Annual Financial Statements. As members of the
Supervisory Board, who must always be a shareholder representative,
– Prepares the appointment of members to the Board of Executive
Supervisory Board may not simultaneously be on the Board of
shall be the casting vote. This resolution process is also applicable
Directors by the Supervisory Board as well as the service contracts

Directors
– When making recommendations for appointments to the Board of
Executive Directors, considers professional qualifications, inter-
national experience and leadership skills as well as long-term
succession planning, diversity, and especially the appropriate
consideration of women
– Prepares the resolutions made by the Supervisory Board with
regard to the system and amount of compensation
Audit Committee
Members
Dame Alison Carnwath DBE* (chair)
Tatjana Diether*
Alessandra Genco* (since April 29, 2022)
Anke Schäferkordt* (until April 29, 2022)
Michael Vassiliadis
Duties
– Prepares the negotiations and resolutions of the Supervisory
Board for the approval of the Financial Statements, the Consoli-
dated Financial Statements and the Management’s Reports,
including the Nonfinancial Statements and sustainability reporting,
and discusses the quarterly statements and the half-year financial
report with the Board of Executive Directors prior to their
publication
– Deals with monitoring the accounting process, the annual audit,
including sustainability reporting and its audit, the appropriateness
and effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk manage-
ment system, the internal auditing system and compliance
management system as well as compliance issues
– Is responsible for business relations with the company’s auditor:
prepares the Supervisory Board’s proposal to the Annual Share-
holders’ Meeting regarding the selection of an auditor, monitors
the auditor’s independence, defines the focus areas of the audit
together with the auditor, discusses the audit risk, audit strategy
and audit plan with the auditor, negotiates auditing fees, evaluates
the quality of the annual audit, and establishes the conditions for
the provision of the auditor’s nonaudit services; the chair of the
Audit Committee regularly discusses this with the auditor outside
of meetings as well and reports to the Committee on such
discussions; the Audit Committee regularly consults with the
auditor, even without the Chief Financial Officer or another
member of the Board of Executive Directors.
– Deals with follow-up assessments of key acquisition and invest-
ment projects
– Is responsible for monitoring the internal process of identifying
related party transactions and ensuring adherence to statutory
approval and disclosure requirements; grants approval of related
party transactions
– Is authorized to request any information that it deems necessary
from the auditor or from the Board of Executive Directors and has
a direct right to information from the heads of central departments
such as Corporate Audit or Compliance; can also view all of
BASF’s business documents and examine these and all other
assets belonging to BASF. The Audit Committee can also engage
experts such as auditors or lawyers to carry out these inspections.
Special expertise in the areas of the annual audit and
accounting
The Audit Committee is comprised of two members with special
knowledge and experience within the meaning of the German
Corporate Governance Code (special expertise) in the areas of
accounting and the annual audit. The chair of the Audit Committee,
Dame Alison Carnwath DBE, has special expertise in the field of
auditing, including sustainability reporting, and accounting expertise
due to her studies in economics, her professional activities as an
auditor and many years of work on audit committees of publicly
listed and non-listed companies. Alessandra Genco, who has been
a member of the Audit Committee since April 29, 2022, has deep
expertise in accounting, including sustainability reporting, due to her
studies in economics, her professional experience working forauthorization of share buybacks, changes to the Statutes and the
selection of the auditor.
Each BASF SE share represents one vote. All of BASF SE’s shares
are registered shares. Shareholders are obliged to have themselves
entered with their shares into the company share register and to
provide the information necessary for registration in the share regis-
ter according to the German Stock Corporation Act. There are no
registration restrictions and there is no limit to the number of shares
that can be registered to one shareholder. Only the persons listed in
the share register are entitled to vote as shareholders. Listed share-
holders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting either personally, through a representative of their choice or
through a company-appointed proxy authorized by the shareholders
to vote according to their instructions. Individual instructions are only
forwarded to the company on the morning of the day of the Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting. Voting rights can be exercised according to
shareholders’ instructions by company-appointed proxies until the
beginning of the voting process during the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting. There are neither voting caps to limit the number of votes
a shareholder may cast nor special voting rights. BASF has fully
implemented the principle of “one share, one vote.” All shareholders
entered in the share register are entitled to participate in the Annual
Shareholders’ Meetings, to have their say concerning any item on
the agenda and to request information about company issues
insofar as this is necessary to make an informed judgment about the
item on the agenda under discussion. Registered shareholders are
also entitled to file motions pertaining to proposals for resolutions
made by the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board at
the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and to contest resolutions of the
Meeting and have them evaluated for their lawfulness in court.
Shareholders who hold at least €500,000 of the company’s share
capital, a quota corresponding to 390,625 shares, are furthermore
entitled to request that additional items be added to the agenda of
the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
Given the particular circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic, the
2022 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting was again held as a virtual
event without the physical presence of shareholders in accordance
with the specific legal framework of the statutory provisions on
the holding of a virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to
Article 2 Section 1(1) and (2) of the COVID-19 Act in the version
amended by the Gesetz zur weiteren Verkürzung des Restschuld-
befreiungsverfahrens und zur Anpassung pandemiebedingter
Vorschriften im Gesellschafts-, Genossenschafts-, Vereins- und
Stiftungsrecht sowie im Miet- und Pachtrecht [“Act to further shorten
the residual debt discharge process and to adapt pandemic-related
provisions in corporate, cooperative, association and foundation
legislation as well as in tenancy and lease legislation”] of Decem-
ber 22, 2020. To ensure legally compliant execution of this special
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting format, whereby shareholders
participated solely via electronic communication, some of the
aforementioned shareholder rights and options for action were
limited or handled in an exceptional manner at this virtual meeting.
In contrast, the 2023 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is planned to
be held again as an in-person meeting, i.e., with the shareholders
physically present at the meeting venue.
Implementation of the German Corporate
Governance Code (GCGC)
BASF advocates responsible corporate governance that focuses on
sustainably increasing the value of the company. BASF SE follows
all of the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance
Code in the version dated April 28, 2022 (Code 2022), the version in
force at the time of submitting the Declaration of Conformity on
December 15, 2022. Until then, BASF has complied with all recom-
mendations of the German Corporate Governance Code in the
version dated December 16, 2019 (Code 2020). In the same
manner, BASF follows all of the nonobligatory suggestions of the
German Corporate Governance Code.
The joint Declaration of Conformity 2022 by the Board of Executive Directors and Supervisory Board of
BASF SE is rendered on page 193
For more information on the Declaration of Conformity 2022, the implementation of the Code’s
suggestions and the German Corporate Governance Code, see basf.com/en/corporategovernance. Disclosures according to section 315a of the
German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory
report of the Board of Executive Directors
according to section 176(1) sentence 1 of the
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)
Share capital and shares
As of December 31, 2022, BASF SE’s subscribed capital was
€1,144,134,309.12 after the redemption of 24,623,765 repurchased
own company shares in December 2022 (December 31, 2021:
€1,175,652,728.23), divided into 893,854,929 registered shares
with no par value (December 31, 2021: 918,478,694). Each share
entitles the holder to one vote at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.
Restrictions on the right to vote or transfer shares do not exist. The
same rights and duties apply to all shares. According to the Statutes,
shareholders are not entitled to receive share certificates (issuance
of share certificates). There are neither different classes of shares
nor shares with preferential voting rights.
Appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of
Executive Directors
The appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Execu-
tive Directors is legally governed by the regulations in Article 39 of
the SE Council Regulation, section 16 of the SE Implementation Act
and sections 84 and 85 AktG as well as Article 7 of the Statutes of
BASF SE. Accordingly, the Supervisory Board determines the
number of members of the Board of Executive Directors (at least
two), appoints the members of the Board of Executive Directors,
and can nominate a chair, as well as one or more vice chairs. The
members of the Board of Executive Directors are appointed for a
maximum of five years. The maximum initial term of appointment is
three years. Reappointments are permissible. The Supervisory
Board can dismiss a member of the Board of Executive Directors if
there is serious cause to do so. Serious cause includes, in particular,
a gross breach of the duties pertaining to the Board of Executive
Directors and a vote of no confidence by the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting. The Supervisory Board decides on appointments and
dismissals according to its own best judgment.
Compliance culture at BASF
For corporate compliance to be a success, there must be an active
culture of living these values and commitments within the company.
The principles embedded in our Code of Conduct are established
and recognized in our day-to-day business. We expect all employees
to act in line with these principles. Our leaders play a key role here –
they serve as an example of and communicate our values and
culture both internally and externally. That is why special workshops
on integrity as a leadership task were again held in 2022 for newly
appointed senior executives.
Monitoring adherence to our compliance principles
BASF’s Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) reports directly to the
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors and manages the
further development of our global compliance organization and our
Compliance Management System. The CCO is supported in this
task by the Corporate Compliance department and more than
100 compliance officers worldwide in the regions and countries as
well as in the divisions, service units and in the Corporate Center.
Material compliance topics are regularly discussed in the compliance
committees established at global and regional level. The compliance
organization reports to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee in
at least one of its meetings each year on the status of the Compliance
Program as well as any major developments. In the event of signifi-
cant incidents, the Audit Committee is immediately informed by the
Board of Executive Directors.
We particularly encourage our employees to actively and promptly
seek guidance if in doubt. They can consult their supervisors,
specialist departments, such as the Legal department, and company
compliance officers. The internal platform and the corresponding
app also help employees to access advice by enabling direct
contact. In addition, our employees can contact our compliance
hotline – including anonymously – to report potential violations of
laws or company guidelines. An independent external company has
been contracted to manage this global hotline so that reported
cases are recorded and processed worldwide through one system.
The central point of contact is a website that informs all employees
worldwide about the hotline and the grievance procedure in their
national language. In addition to local phone numbers, the website
also offers an online contact option, which is available via PC or
smartphone. The website is also available to the public. Each
concern is documented according to specific criteria, properly
investigated in line with standard internal procedures and answered
as quickly as possible. The outcome of the investigation as well as
any measures taken are documented accordingly and included in
internal reports.
In 2022, 453 reports were received by our external hotlines (2021:
277). The information received related to all categories of our Code
of Conduct, including respect in the workplace, corruption, handling
of company property and environmental, health and safety issues.
We carefully investigated all cases of suspected misconduct that
came to our attention and, when necessary, took countermeasures
on a case-by-case basis. These included, for example, improved
control mechanisms, additional informational and training measures,
clarification and expansion of the relevant internal regulations, as
well as disciplinary measures as appropriate. Most of the justified
cases related to violations of our principles on respect in the work-
place and personal misconduct in connection with the protection of
company property or inappropriate handling of conflicts of interests.
In such isolated cases, we took disciplinary measures in accordance
with uniform internal standards and also pursued claims for damages
where there were sufficient prospects of success. In 2022, violations
of our Code of Conduct led to termination of employment in a total
of 34 cases (2021: 32). This relates to diverse employee groups,
including executives.
BASF’s Corporate Audit department monitors adherence to
compliance principles, covering all areas in which compliance
violations could occur. They check that employees uphold regu-
lations and make sure that the established processes, procedures
and monitoring tools are appropriate and sufficient to minimize
potential risks or preclude violations in the first place. In 2022,
47 audits of this kind were performed Group-wide (2021: 77). Our
180
compliance management system itself is also regularly audited by
the internal Corporate Audit department, most recently in December
2022. Overall, the audit results speak for the effectiveness of the
compliance management system. As part of the comprehensive
action plan developed last year for the continuous, systematic
optimization of our compliance management system, we worked on
strengthening key processes in 2022 and described the principles,
core processes and roles in our system in detail in a revised
internal policy, Compliance Management System (CMS), which
was approved by the Board of Executive Directors in August 2022.
A particular focus of our compliance activities in 2022 was the
further development of our internal systems and processes in light
of changes to supply chain law, including the German Supply Chain
Due Diligence Act (SCA) (see page 111).
We monitor our business partners in sales for potential compliance
risks based on the global Guideline on Business Partner Due
Diligence using a checklist, a questionnaire and an internet-based
analysis. The results are then documented. If business partners are
not prepared to answer the questionnaire, we do not enter into a
business relationship with them. A dedicated global Supplier Code
of Conduct applies to our suppliers, which covers compliance with
environmental, social and corporate governance standards, among
other requirements. As part of our trade control processes, we also
check whether persons, companies or organizations appear on
sanction lists due to suspicious or illegal activities and whether there
are business processes with business partners from or in countries
under embargo. One focus of our activities in 2022 was on the
continuous monitoring and implementation of the dynamically evolv-
ing sanctions law requirements in light of the war in Ukraine.
We support the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights and are constantly working to enhance our internal
guidelines and processes in keeping with these principles. For
example, there is an internal guideline to respect international
labor and social standards that is applicable throughout the
Group. Outside of our company, too, we support respect for human
rights and the fight against corruption. We are a founding member
of the United Nations Global Compact. As a member of Transparency
BASF Report 2022 Corporate Governance – Compliance 181
International Deutschland and the Partnering Against Corruption
Initiative (PACI) of the World Economic Forum, we assist in the
implementation of these organizations’ objectives.
We are committed to adhering to uniformly high standards and
integrity regarding tax-related issues, as embedded in BASF’s Code
of Conduct and corporate values. To aid in the achievement of the
U.N. SDGs and to meet our own standards for the creation of
economic and social value, we contribute to public finances in
accordance with legal requirements and our corporate values. In
2020, we developed and published the BASF tax principles, which
are binding for all Group entities.
For more information on the Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier assessments,
see page 114 onward
For more information on the Code of Conduct, see basf.com/code-of-conduct
For more information on human rights and labor and social standards, see
basf.com/human_rights
For more information on tax principles, see basf.com/en/corporategovernance
BASF's Compliance Program is based on our corporate values and voluntary commitments, as well as international standards. It describes our commitment to responsible conduct and expectations around how all BAS employees interact with business partners, officials, coworkers and the community. At the core of our Compliance Program is the global, standardized Code of Conduct. All employees and leaders are obligated to adhere to its guidelines, which cover topics ranging from corruption and antitrust laws to human rights, labor and social standards, conflicts of interest and trade control, and protection of data privacy.
The online version of our Code of Conduct is aimed at our emplovees and also offers user-friendly features such as case studies, FAQs and additional references. The internal online platform and the corresponding app provide our employees worldwide with up-to-date content such as videos and links to specialist units and guidelines as well as direct contact to subject specialists.
Other binding governance documents (policies, corporate require-ments) are published on a digital platform that offers our employees an effective search function and context-based links to further information. The managing directors of BAS Group companies can find important information and assistance on ensuring compliance in their Group companies on an intranet page set up especially for them.
Abiding by compliance standards is the foundation of responsible leadership. This has also been embedded in our values. We are convinced that compliance with these standards will play a key role in securing our company's long-term success. Our efforts are principally aimed at preventing violations from the outset.
We perform a systematic risk assessment to identify the risk of compliance violations, including corruption risks. These are conducted at divisional and Group company level. The regular compliance audits performed by the Corporate Audit department are another source of information for the systematic identification of risks. These risks are documented in the relevant risk or audit report.
The same applies to specific risk minimization measures as well as the time frame for their implementation.
One key element in violation prevention is compulsory training and workshops held as classroom or online courses. All employees are required within a prescribed time frame to take part in basic training, refresher courses and special tutorials dealing with, for example, antitrust legislation, taxes or trade control regulations. Newly appointed senior executives also receive special training on leading with integrity. Course materials and formats are constantly updated, taking into account the specific risks of individual target groups and business areas. In total, more than 30,000 participants worldwide received over 50,000 hours of compliance training in 2022.
The image is an infographic titled "Compliance," which describes the company's Compliance Program and Code of Conduct. Here is a detailed breakdown of the content:

### Compliance
The main aim of the Group-wide Compliance Program is to ensure adherence to legal regulations, the company’s internal guidelines, and ethical business practices. The Code of Conduct embeds these mandatory standards into employees’ day-to-day business. Members of the Board of Executive Directors are expressly obligated to follow these principles.

#### At a Glance
- **>30,000 participants in compliance training**
- **47 internal audits on adherence to our compliance standards**

#### Key Components
- **Code of Conduct:** Central to the Compliance Program
- **Systematic development:** Continuous improvement of the compliance management system

#### Compliance Focus Areas

1. **We Care**
   - Our Code of Conduct
   - How We Make Decisions
   - We Always Speak Up
   - We Lead Integrity

2. **We Earn Trust**
   - Anti-Corruption
   - Trade Control
   - Anti-Money Laundering

3. **We Play Fair**
   - Antitrust Laws
   - Gifts and Entertainment
   - Conflicts of Interest

4. **We Respect**
   - Human Rights, Labor and Social Standards
   - Environmental Protection, Health and Safety

5. **We Protect**
   - Sensitive Company Information
   - Personal Data
   - Digital Responsibility
   - Company Property
   - Accurate Books and Records

The infographic emphasizes the company's commitment to maintaining high standards of compliance through extensive training, regular audits, and a robust Code of Conduct. Each focus area is designed to ensure the integrity, trustworthiness, fairness, respect, and protection of all company stakeholders and assets.