ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
Non-financial Statement 2022
Combined Non-financial Statement of the Beiersdorf Group
and Beiersdorf AG
In accordance with Germany’s CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG), Beiersdorf reports on
material non-financial aspects of its business activities in its Annual Report. These include aspects
regarding the environment, employees, society, human rights, and anti-corruption. The following
sections of the Annual Report constitute the Combined Non-financial Statement (NFS) for the
Beiersdorf Group (Consumer and tesa Business Segments) and Beiersdorf AG, as defined under
sections 315b and 289b of the Handelsgesetzbuch (German Commercial Code, HGB).
Furthermore, both the Consumer and tesa Business Segments publish separate sustainability reports
which provide further information on their respective sustainability activities and projects.
Application of international reporting frameworks
Due to the different materiality requirements set out in the GRI Standards, United Nations Global
Compact (UNGC), and Germany’s CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG), neither the
Beiersdorf Group nor Beiersdorf AG applied any international frameworks in accordance with section
315c(3) of the HGB in conjunction with section 289d of the HGB to prepare the Non-financial Statement.
The Consumer Business Segment, however, follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards in
its broader sustainability reporting and publishes a separate GRI index.
Both business segments are United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) members and report on their
achievements and measures taken in the reporting period in order to implement the ten princi-
ples of the UNGC in the areas of human rights, working conditions, environmental protection, and
anti-corruption. This Non-financial Statement systematically and comprehensively fulfills the UNGC
Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements for the Beiersdorf Group.
Material non-financial topics for the business segments
Both business segments conduct materiality analyses to strategically identify and review sustainability
topics. In the Consumer Business Segment, such an analysis was last carried out in 2021. The f ollowing
material topics were identified during this process: Climate protection, circular economy, sustaina-
ble land use and biodiversity, sustainable use of water, diversity and inclusion, education and training,
employer attractiveness, occupational health and safety, safeguarding human rights, community
engagement, compliance and business ethics, and product safety.
The tesa Business Segment last updated its materiality matrix with members of relevant specialist
departments in 2020. The material non-financial topics identified are climate and energy, product
sustainability, resource efficiency, water, employee development, diversity and equal opportuni-
ties, occupational health and safety, human rights, prevention of anticompetitive behavior, and
product safety. For an overview of all material non-financial topics relating to the Consumer and
tesa Business Segments, together with section and page references, please refer to our index to
the Non-financial Statement.
Statement scope
Disclosures on the material NFS topics are mainly provided separately for the tesa and Consumer
Business Segments. In principle, all information is reported jointly for the Beiersdorf Group and
Beiersdorf AG. Key figures that are collected separately for Beiersdorf AG are listed in the table
“Relevant Key Figures for the Non-financial Statement of the Beiersdorf AG”.
88 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
pose a threat to water are emptied, refilled, and stored only in areas that are equipped with appropriate
retention tanks. We use equipment to measure turbidity and solvent concentration to ensure that con-
taminated surface water is not discharged into the sewer system. We have emergency plans in place
to determine the exact course of action in the event of a leakage of substances hazardous to water. All
these measures are regularly reviewed in our external ISO 14001 audits and are a precondition for a
successful audit result.
Employees
Our employees play a key role in the sustainable development of our company. Their expertise,
skills, and commitment ensure that we remain competitive and innovative. Our goal is to create an
attractive, inclusive workplace that recognizes the individual performance and actively promotes the
potential of a diverse workforce.
Consumer
Training and education
The changes in our working world require an agile and dynamic approach to work and thus a high
degree of flexibility and willingness to learn. This makes it all the more important to foster our
employees’ personal strengths and invest in their long-term development. To this end, we offer
comprehensive training and development opportunities that also support lifelong learning.
More information on the key topic of training and development, as well as knowledge and learning,
can be found in the Combined Management Report in the section entitled “People at Beiersdorf”.
Employer attractiveness
We want to be an attractive employer for our employees and offer them a safe, attractive, and
inclusive working environment where everyone feels they belong and has the same opportunities to
succeed and do their best work. We believe that this includes open dialogue across all levels in the
spirit of participation and involvement, the achievement of jointly set goals, and a responsible man-
agement culture. It is particularly important to us that our employees form an emotional bond with
our company, so we regularly review this using global employee surveys.
Further information on the results of these surveys can be found in the “People at Beiersdorf” section
of the Combined Management Report.
Diversity and inclusion
We are convinced that a diverse workforce enriches our teamwork enormously. This is because
different perspectives and experiences not only make us more innovative, they also boost our
competitiveness, make us more creative, and help us to better understand and take into account the
needs of our consumers. Diversity and inclusion are thus not only actively promoted but form a core
component of our business strategy.
The global D&I roadmap formulated in 2021 and further refined in the reporting year supports us in
creating a culture rooted in diversity and inclusion. It encompasses a number of strategic priorities
that are presented in more detail in the “People at Beiersdorf” section of the Combined Management
Report. This section also contains the relevant key figures, such as the percentage of women in man-
agement positions and the number of management vacancies filled internally.
111 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
tesa
Training and education
Competition for employees with scientific and technical backgrounds is constantly on the rise within
our industry. The advance of digitalization and internationalization is also changing work require-
ments and methods. We are meeting these challenges with comprehensive education and further
training programs, as highly qualified, committed, and performance-oriented employees represent
a decisive competitive advantage for tesa. In addition, a wide range of training and development
opportunities help to ensure that high potentials enjoy working for us long term.
The tesa Group offers its own training at its production facilities in Hamburg and Offenburg; we are
also planning to roll out such a training program for tesa SE’s corporate headquarters beginning in
2023. The focus here is on technical professions, for example chemicals technician, electronics tech-
nician for industrial engineering, industrial mechanic, machine and plant operator, and mechatronics
technician. In addition, we offer cooperative degree programs and vocational training programs in
business-related fields, such as plastics and elastomer technology, electrical engineering, and IT
systems integration.
Our goal is to hire our trainees upon completion of their training for the long term. This is also
reflected in our retention rates: In Hamburg, 79% of the trainees who completed their training in 2022
were retained, while in Offenburg the retention rate stood at 54%.
In order to identify and fully tap our employees’ potential, we offer them a wide range of profes-
sional and personal development opportunities. Our programs are designed with specific target
groups and areas of expertise in mind and include, for example, basic training for new employees. All
employees can take advantage of in-person and online training courses, for example on compliance,
occupational safety, sales, as well as management and leadership. Since the start of the COVID-19
pandemic, we have expanded the number of online courses offered in order to provide employees
with a variety of options, even when they are working from home. In addition, courses from the digital
learning platform LinkedIn Learning complement our own programs.
Diversity and equal opportunities
Different perspectives help us to better understand the needs of our customers and at the same
time increase tesa’s innovative spirit. That is why we are committed to greater diversity and equal
opportunities.
When filling new positions, we make a point of hiring employees with different cultural backgrounds.
The share of non-German nationals in the workforce increased by 3.1 percentage points to 8.7%
between December 2020 and December 2022. We want to consolidate this trend and, for example,
advertise all vacancies for certain higher-level positions exclusively in English.
In the coming years, we are going to step up our efforts to promote gender equality within the work-
force and in leadership roles. We have set ourselves the target of having women account for 30% of
the first level below the Executive Board and 35% of the second level at tesa SE by mid-2027.
Attractive working environment
An appealing environment can contribute to employee well-being. That’s why our workplaces are
equipped with ergonomic and contemporary furniture and equipment, such as height-adjustable
desks and modern lighting and ventilation concepts. In addition, we offer employees a health man-
agement program at our corporate headquarters in Norderstedt. This program includes ergonomic
counseling, colorectal cancer screenings, a health club, and massages. Company medical care as
112 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
well as internal and external psychosocial counseling and support are also part of the health man-
agement program.
In addition, our employees at our headquarters in Norderstedt can, among other offerings, take
advantage of a cleaning service, visit regular market stalls to purchase regional fruit and vegetables,
and utilize various mobility concepts. For example, they have the ability to charge EVs and e-bikes at a
company charging point and park rental bikes from Hamburg’s “Stadtrad” initiative at a station on site.
Employees also have the option of leasing bicycles through a subsidized program.
Occupational health and safety
Beiersdorf bears a great responsibility for workplace safety and the health of our employees. That
is why we view the two as a comprehensive, holistic, and preventive management task. Our strategic
objective is therefore to reduce the number of accidents at work to zero and avoid work-related
illnesses as well as undue physical and psychological stress factors. To achieve this goal, we conduct
regular audits to determine how we can make our workplaces even safer and healthier.
Our accident frequency rate (AFR) documents all accidents at work that result in at least one day’s
absence from work. In the Consumer Business Segment, our AFR sank in 2022 to 0.5 accidents per
million hours worked. This represents a 45% reduction in AFR compared to the previous year. We
are particularly pleased to report that 73% of our production centers operated completely acci-
dent-free throughout all of 2022. At tesa, the AFR of documented accidents resulting in at least one
day of absence at ISO 14001 certified sites stood at 3.6 per million working hours worldwide in the
reporting year (2021: 4.1).
COVID-19 pandemic
The risks to our employees still associated with the COVID-19 pandemic are integrated into our safety
and health management activities. Our local teams continue to monitor the situation, comply with
local legislation, and adapt protective measures whenever necessary.
Consumer
Driven by our Care Beyond Skin business purpose and guided by our core values, we are committed to
reducing potential safety risks and incidents. Our Global Occupational Safety Department is respon-
sible for managing safety at the workplace, but we also count on the cooperation of all employees at
our sites.
Our occupational health and safety strategy applies worldwide. It encompasses our most impor-
tant current measures and programs and serves as a basis for our sites to develop their own local
implementation plans and measures. We monitor the progress of these measures using indicators
at a global level.
As part of our continuous improvement efforts, we focus on reducing the main risks associated
with slips, trips, falls, forklift operation, and machine operation. Within the framework of our
behavior-based safety program, we encourage all employees to participate and provide feedback.
We focus on ensuring that our employees make each other aware of both misconduct and exem-
plary safety implementation.
Management systems
In 2022, we further increased our global standards and focused on defining work methodologies
for technological innovations such as collaborative robots (COBOTs). In addition, we expanded our
requirements for key activities such as warehousing and forklift operations. This helps our managers
integrate safety and health protection into day-to-day operations.
113 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
Respect for human rights
Beiersdorf actively promotes compliance with laws, codes of conduct, and human rights. This
responsibility is deeply anchored in how we see ourselves, as well as in our core values. This not
only applies to our own sites and employees around the world, but also to all employees along
the value chain. We do not tolerate any form of corruption, forced labor, child labor, or discrimina-
tion – neither at our own locations nor at any point in our supply chain. Furthermore, we support
the health and safety of employees in the workplace, employees’ right to freedom of association,
including collective bargaining, and environmental protection. We are also committed to equal
rights and treatment as well as diversity.
Upholding human rights throughout the value chain
We primarily see risks relating to compliance with human rights in purchasing and procurement, for
example of raw materials or services – and thus in our supply chains. Our goal is to eliminate or mini-
mize all threats to human rights to the greatest extent possible.
Due to our responsibility as a multinational company that operates across the globe and the legal
requirements with respect to human rights due diligence, we reevaluated the risk of human rights
violations involving our employees and our supply chain in the reporting year. This was conducted as
part of our annual risk management process. If minimum social standards are not met, it may affect
the safety, health, and well-being of employees. As a result of Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence
Act coming into force, human rights violations can now result not only in considerable damage to our
reputation, but also in substantial fines for companies. We are responding to this risk with, among
other measures, a task force that is preparing the company’s internal processes for the additional
requirements imposed by the law. In addition, we implement numerous preventive measures when it
comes to human rights to reduce negative impacts as far as possible.
As mentioned in our “Declaration of Principles on Respect for Human Rights,” we are not only a
signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) but also steer our own business activities
and our collaboration with business partners based on fundamental principles and guidelines. These
include the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO)
Conventions, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In addition, we fully comply
with all regulations and official requirements applicable in specific countries.
We focus on long-term relationships with business partners who commit to and align with our prin-
ciples of sustainable, responsible corporate governance and explicitly promote these. The internal
and external codes of conduct for our employees and our suppliers contain binding requirements
on upholding human rights.
We require our business partners to meet our standards and communicate them to their upstream
supply chains. This applies both in terms of required product quality as well as transparent, fair,
and responsible business practices. In this way, we want to ensure that our business partners live
up to their social, environmental, and economic responsibilities – and ultimately manufacture
high-quality products.
Consumer
Consumer Business Segment creates binding standards
With our Code of Conduct for Business Partners (CoC), the Consumer Business Segment has commit-
ted all our business partners along the supply chain with an annual purchasing volume of more than
€ 50,000 to comply fully with our standards. The CoC is aligned with our core values and establishes
uniform, binding criteria for responsible business activities, including critical aspects such as prohibiting
119 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
corruption, child labor, forced labor, and discrimination as well as promoting occupational health and
safety, the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and environmental protection.
In 2022, we procured more than 90% of our goods and services through partners who have explicitly
committed to our CoC; we aim to increase this share in the future. We also revised the CoC in the
reporting year to meet the requirements of Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act which came
into force on January 1, 2023.
Risk screenings and audits
In addition, environmental protection and occupational safety audits have been carried out at all
Beiersdorf Consumer facilities since 2013. These audits are aligned with the requirements of the
Environmental Protection and Safety Management Audit Scheme (ESMAS), which are based on the
internationally recognized ISO 14001 (environmental management systems) and ISO 45001 (occupa-
tional health and safety management systems) standards.
ESMAS audits verify whether appropriate measures are implemented to guarantee compliance with
our globally applicable environmental as well as occupational health and safety standards at our sites.
During the reporting year, Beiersdorf’s production sites in Hamburg and Berlin (Germany), Argentona
(Spain), Sanand (India), Bangplee (Thailand), Malang (Indonesia), Shanghai (China), Itatiba (Brazil),
Mexico City (Mexico) and Lagos (Nigeria) were audited in accordance with the ESMAS standard.
In addition to the ESMAS audits, our facilities in Germany (Hamburg and Berlin), Spain (Argentona and
Tres Cantos), India, Indonesia, China, Brazil and Nigeria were audited in the reporting year in accord-
ance with the standardized 4-pillar audit protocol of the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA).
All of the audits performed are valid for three years and are therefore repeated every three years.
The Vice Presidents of the functions Sustainability and Procurement are responsible for sustainability
in our overall sourcing operations and throughout the supply chain. A risk classification assessment
is performed on all of our more than 21,000 direct suppliers; it examines whether more in-depth
screening and thus further measures beyond signing the CoC are required. Country-specific risks,
the quantity of goods purchased, and the proximity of the respective goods or service companies to
Beiersdorf’s brands are risks that all play a role in the risk classification process. Direct suppliers with a
medium risk rating must submit a comprehensive self-disclosure via the Sedex or EcoVadis platforms.
On this basis, we conduct a more detailed risk assessment, which the Responsible Sourcing team then
uses to decide whether a subsequent audit is required. Direct supplier facilities with a high risk rating
are required to undergo an on-site audit.
To ensure objectivity, the audits are carried out by independent certified auditors according to the
standardized SMETA 4-pillar audit protocol. The results of the audits highlight concrete challenges
and fields for action and serve as a basis for the joint development of action plans with our suppliers.
In extreme cases, audit results may lead to the termination of business relationships. By leveraging
international collaboration platforms such as Sedex, EcoVadis, and AIM-PROGRESS, we can con-
tinuously improve our sustainability engagement right along the supply chain. In addition, we are
currently restructuring the risk classification process. The goal is to integrate even more external
insights, indices, and data sources and make our processes even more robust from 2023 onward.
tesa
Designing procurement processes in a responsible manner
We require direct suppliers to the tesa Business Segment to sign our Code of Conduct for Suppliers
(CoCS). The CoCS forms the foundation for designing our global procurement processes in a
responsible manner and outlines fundamental rules and commitments in the areas of human rights,
labor standards, environmental protection and the prevention of corruption. It is based on the ten
120 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
principles of the UN Global Compact, the conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO),
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We expect our suppliers to comply with our
standards and to remedy any shortcomings. In this context, we are implementing our own auditing
process. In light of Germany’s new Supply Chain Due Diligence Act, we also expanded the CoCS in
the reporting year and thus made the issue of human rights even more relevant. The new CoCS will
be valid from 2023.
Our supply chains are global and complex, as we source raw materials, products, and services from
all over the world. By working together closely, we aim to establish long-term, trusting partnerships
with regular suppliers. Our goal is to ensure that product quality, supply reliability, and our shared
commitment to sustainable growth remains on a high level.
The rules for our global procurement processes are defined and described in the Purchasing Com-
pliance Guideline (PCG), which also forms part of our Group-wide Compliance Manual. This policy
contains binding rules of conduct for tesa’s procurement activities and is reviewed and revised on
an ongoing basis.
More transparent supply chains
We not only require our major suppliers to comply with the tesa CoCS, our goal is also to gradually
increase transparency and sustainability across our entire supply chain.
In the reporting year, we introduced a systematic assessment process for our approximately
10,000 suppliers. In this process, our Procurement and Sustainability Departments examine whether
a more in-depth risk analysis of the suppliers is necessary. This supplier screening process is carried
out once a year and as required, for example in the case of new suppliers. In addition to risks specific
to individual countries and industries, the quantity of goods purchased also plays a role in classi-
fication, which extends across the risk categories very low, low, medium low, medium high, high,
and very high. Factors such as strategic relevance are also included, for example if the company is a
supplier for an important raw material or a single-source supplier.
We have already been inviting direct suppliers to complete an assessment via the EcoVadis platform
since 2020. Suppliers with a good rating can thus demonstrate the extent to which they uphold
human rights, maintain fair working conditions, and take environmental aspects into account, as well
as responsibly produce and procure their products, raw materials, and services. In the future, these
invitations will be linked to risk factors in an even more targeted manner.
At the end of 2022, suppliers that are responsible for 54% (2021: 43%) of our direct purchasing volume
had submitted EcoVadis assessments. In the coming years, our aim is to gradually increase this figure,
with a goal of having sustainability assessments completed for a total of 80% of our direct purchasing
volume by 2025. Furthermore, our goal is that by 2030, 80% of our purchasing volume will be sourced
exclusively from suppliers who meet our responsible supply chain standards - this means that, among
other things, they have an EcoVadis assessment of at least 45 points.
Compliance
The following Compliance section applies to both the Consumer and tesa Business Segments. Both
Business Segments have established their own independent compliance management systems (CMS),
which follow uniform standards and are implemented in close alignment between the two respective
Corporate Compliance Management teams. Differences in the precise design of the CMS of the two
Business Segments are described below, insofar as they exist.

To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
Our Core Values for responsible conduct
For us, compliance means observing legal and commercial provisions and rules – and doing so
without compromise. Both the Consumer and tesa Business Segments have established a respective
Code of Conduct (CoC) to ensure compliance with these standards and to fulfill our social responsi-
bility as a company in the best possible way. As an overarching value framework, the CoC is intended
to guide everyone at the company when carrying our business activities. Furthermore, it supports all
our employees, managers, and corporate bodies in complying with and living by the core principles
and values of the Business Segments. As a directive for our actions, the CoC contributes to affirming
our company’s status now and in the future as a trusted partner to our customers, business partners,
shareholders, and further stakeholders.
Group-wide compliance management
Our Group-wide CMS is based on established standards such as the IDW AsS 980. We follow these
guiding principles:
• Prevent: Preventive measures are anchored in our management system to avoid wrongdoing.
• Detect: We use risk analyses to detect and manage material compliance risks Group-wide. Addi-
tional control instruments help reveal noncompliant behavior.
• React and Improve: We penalize any violations of statutory or internal regulations as appropriate
in each individual case. In addition, we continuously develop improvement measures for the
entire CMS. We see our compliance management system as an important contribution to acting
in a sustainable and forward-looking manner and thus living up to our tradition as a reliable and
trustworthy company.
Prevent
Antitrust law continues to be an important compliance issue for both parts of the Group. The
reasons for this are our business models, legal complexity, the continually increasing prosecution
activity worldwide, as well as the potential for sanctions by antitrust authorities. In addition to
antitrust law, preventing corruption and acting in accordance with privacy laws are two other focal
points of our compliance programs. These programs serve to specifically raise the awareness of our
relevant employee groups to these topics and to provide them with both the confidence to act and
make decisions.
Our Corporate Compliance departments are responsible for defining, developing, and monitoring the
minimum standards for these programs, as well as an appropriate CMS in their respective organization.
In our regions and at our affiliates, we have established local compliance officers who are responsible for
communicating all elements of the compliance programs to our employees and working to ensure that
they are applied locally. The aim is to enshrine all elements of our compliance system in the regions and
affiliates and to monitor and improve them on an ongoing basis. A special network of external attorneys
specialized in antitrust issues is available to local companies. Practice-oriented training and consulting
services as well as various guidelines form the core elements of our compliance programs:
• The antitrust guidelines provide clear directives on antitrust-compliant behavior, requirements
for contact and the exchange of information with competitors, guidance for communication with
customers, for example, with regard to sale prices, as well as fundamental dos and don’ts.
• The anti-corruption guidelines serve as a guide to dealing with gifts, product samples, and invita-
tions from and to representatives and employees of other companies or public officials. They also
contain information on how to deal with conflicts of interest.
122 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
• The data protection guidelines describe, in particular, how the principles of the European Union’s
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) are implemented for the lawful processing of data at
our EU companies. These guidelines direct and instruct our employees on how to handle data in a
legally compliant manner. In addition, the data protection teams have established internal partner-
ships with key data protection functions such as Cyber Security and Procurement.
We have implemented a comprehensive, target group-specific training concept. Taking a risk-oriented
approach, we train an average of several thousand employees worldwide annually on corruption
prevention as well as antitrust and data protection-compliant behavior. This training is delivered
face-to-face or in an e-learning format and it serves to raise our employees’ awareness of the topic
and to show them where to obtain further support. In addition, Members of the Executive Board and
Supervisory Board are regularly informed about relevant compliance matters. In the fiscal year 2022,
the Consumer Business Segment achieved a total training participation rate of 97% and tesa of 99%.
The total participation rate applies to the target and risk group defined in advance for the respective
compliance fields of antitrust law, anti-corruption, and data protection. This includes all employees
and managers who may come into contact with the respective issues and requirements.
Our employees can find key guidance and information on the relevant compliance intranet pages.
In addition, we use various communication channels such as the intranet and email to inform our
workforce regularly about compliance topics and related new developments. Furthermore, we
regularly exchange information with our local affiliates on generally relevant updates, emerging
questions, or best-practice approaches, for example.
These ongoing communication and training measures help us institutionalize the compliance principles
at our companies.
Detect
The analysis of compliance risks forms the basis of our compliance management system and our
compliance programs. To this end, we regularly identify existing and future compliance risk areas in
our business models and our geographical presence as part of a holistic compliance risk assessment.
In addition, both Corporate Compliance departments support their management teams in identifying
risks that go beyond their own organizational responsibility.
In a second step, these are then evaluated and prioritized. High-priority issues are analyzed for their
specific risks in order to ensure that appropriate countermeasures exist or are taken. This is carried
out both centrally and at the affiliates. The results are presented to the Executive Board and leveraged
to continually adapt and improve our global and local compliance programs.
In order to operate in a fully compliant manner over the long term and maintain and further promote
an open and trusting compliance and communication culture, it is essential that individual employees
are personally committed to the issue. This also includes reporting possible compliance violations
and other complaints – even anonymously, if they so desire. To this end, we have established and
communicated various reporting systems.
For example, the Consumer Business Segment launched the “Speak up. We care.” whistleblowing
platform that can be accessed from anywhere in the world around the clock. The tesa Business Segment
has also been using this platform since this reporting period. Furthermore, external ombudspersons
received confidential information on potential compliance violations on behalf of tesa until 31.10.2022.
The whistleblowing platforms are available not only to our own employees but also to customers,
consumers, suppliers, and other external stakeholders for the purpose of reporting possible
misconduct. Besides the above, we also provide internal options for reporting such as Corporate
Compliance email addresses.
123 ANNUAL REPORT 2022
To the shareholders Combined Management Report Consolidated Financial Statements Additional Information
We have established processes to investigate and clarify any information received and ensure that
appropriate measures are taken, following careful consideration. Relevant specialist functions and the
Corporate Auditing Department are usually involved in the investigation.
Corporate Auditing is another independent monitoring function within Beiersdorf AG. This depart-
ment conducts regular audits of both Business Segments, of which compliance-relevant topics form
an integral part. In addition, each Corporate Compliance Department regularly monitors compliance
with centrally defined minimum standards, through on-site visits or queries about the implementation
of measures, for instance.
React and improve
We closely monitor the effectiveness of our compliance management system by means of our regular
Group-wide compliance reporting. The results are reported to the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board. These reports document compliance incidents as well as the status of our compliance programs
centrally and at affiliates worldwide. We derive further courses of action based on this information
and implement appropriate measures. The affiliates are naturally required to inform the Corporate
Compliance Department immediately about any material compliance incidents, including outside the
regular reporting cycles, in order to be able to respond immediately.
We consider the continual and thorough development of our compliance management systems as an
integral part of our activities. This is how we take internal adaptation requirements into account, as
well as the dynamic changes in legal frameworks and economic conditions. In the reporting year, we
developed formalized audit formats for this purpose in the Consumer Business Segment and carried
them out at select affiliates. On the basis of the formats, we analyze the effectiveness of antitrust and
data protection compliance and improve it on an ongoing basis. At tesa, we revised the data privacy
guidelines, the whistleblowing guidelines, and the case management process. We also reviewed the
status of local compliance implementation at certain affiliates.
Other Issues
Product Safety
Our highest priority is to provide safe products that are fully compatible with our consumers’ health
and the environment. All our products therefore need to comply with numerous statutory require-
ments before they can receive official market approval. Both Business Segments apply high standards
in this regard.
Consumer
In this respect, our understanding of quality goes beyond the evaluation and approval of our
products. We understand quality as a dynamic process that contributes to continuous improvement
and express this understanding in the Beiersdorf Quality Policy. It guides our Executive Board, our
management, and all our employees in their daily activities.
It also serves to maintain and build on our consumers’ satisfaction and high level of trust, and to
ensure that we remain competitive in the future.
Safety evaluation of all raw materials and cosmetic product formulas
To ensure that we meet our own strict requirements regarding the quality of our products, we employ
a team of experienced, highly qualified safety assessors. First, this team must perform the legally
required evaluation and approval of the raw materials, formulas, packaging materials, and product
claims, thereby verifying their safety and compatibility for consumers. Only then do the safety asses-
sors approve the finished products for distribution. This is done primarily in accordance with the
124