Within the framework of the implementation of the European
Green Deal and the Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”,
the EU Taxonomy is a cornerstone of the EU’s aspiration to be!
come climate!neutral by 2050. Its key objectives are to increase
transparency and provide an objective benchmark for capital
market participants in order to channel capital flows towards
environmentally sustainable economic activities.
The EU Taxonomy is a classification system that defines eco!
nomic activities as environmentally sustainable based on fulfil!
ment of predetermined technical screening criteria.
Essentially, an economic activity can only be classified as sustain!
able if it substantially contributes to one of the following six en!
vironmental objectives:
I. Climate change mitigation
II. Climate change adaptation
III. Sustainable use and protection of water and marine
resources
IV. Transition to a circular economy
V. Pollution prevention and control
VI. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and
ecosystems
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
This contribution is based on fulfilment of specific predetermined
requirements. Moreover, no other environmental objective may
be significantly harmed as a result of performing the activity and
the Company involved must observe minimum safeguards,
among them compliance with human rights.
On the basis of the phased introduction of the EU Taxonomy in
the Delegated Acts, companies such as the BMW Group were
required to report the Taxonomy!eligible proportion of their rev!
enues, capital expenditures and operating expenditures for
Environmental Objectives I and II for the first time in the previous
year. Since reporting year 2022, the reporting requirements have
been expanded to include Taxonomy!aligned proportions for
both these environmental objectives. The reporting scope is
expected to be expanded to the environmental objectives III to
VI starting with the reporting year 2024.
Our holistic understanding of sustainability
The BMW Group supports the overarching goal of the EU Taxon!
omy to promote the private financing of environmentally sustain!
able economic activities in order to make Europe the world’s first
climate!neutral continent by 2050. As a company aspiring to
achieve net zero across its entire value chain by no later than
2050, we welcome all initiatives that serve this objective. As part
of this commitment, the BMW Group had already set ambitious,
science!based targets for all three scopes in 2020, which it aims
to achieve by 2030 (base year 2019). These goals were validated
by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Each year, the
BMW Group Report informs about the level of progress. ! Strategy
In the coming years, the significant growth in electromobility will
imply that the majority of carbon emissions will be generated
within the upstream value chain, rather than primarily in the use
phase. Without the anticipated set of measures to reduce carbon
emissions generated within the BMW Group supply chain, these
emissions would already exceed actual carbon emissions in
the use phase prior to 2030. ! Strategy, ! Production and Supplier
Network, ! Carbon emissions Accordingly, the BMW Group is taking
a holistic approach to achieving its sustainability!related targets
and is committed to considering carbon emissions over the
entire life cycle of the vehicles produced. ! Carbon emissions How!
ever, for the economic activities that are relevant to the
BMW Group, the EU Taxonomy focuses exclusively on reducing
carbon emissions during the use phase that are attributable to
low!emissions (until 2025) and emissions!free drive systems.
Indirect carbon emissions, for instance those produced when
generating charging current or during the energy!intensive pro!
duction of high!voltage batteries, are not taken into account in
the context of these economic activities. Moreover, the EU Tax!
onomy only reflects the impact of decarbonisation measures in
in!house production to the extent that they serve to manufacture
Taxonomy!aligned products or to the extent that they are explic!
itly included in the description of an activity. The deficit of this
approach is shown by the example that increasing the energy
efficiency of paint shop processes also reduces carbon emissions
in in!house production when a conventionally powered vehicle
is painted. In light of the BMW Group’s selected economic activ!
ities, its sustainability efforts in this regard are not, or are only
partially, taken into account in the EU taxonomy
Explanatory comments on reporting procedures
Explanatory comments on reporting procedures for the reporting
year 2022, we are reporting on Taxonomy alignment for the first
time in relation to Environmental Objective I “Climate change
mitigation” and Environmental Objective II “Climate change
adaptation”, in addition to reporting on Taxonomy eligibility.
Taxonomy eligibility is an initial indicator of the maximum envi!
ronmental sustainability potential of economic activities as
defined by the EU Taxonomy. Taxonomy alignment, on the other
hand, serves as an indicator of an organisation’s transformation
towards environmentally sustainable economic activities.
An economic activity is to be seen as Taxonomy!eligible if it is
described in the Delegated Acts relating to one of the six envi!
ronmental objectives, regardless of whether that economic
activity meets the technical screening criteria stipulated in those
Delegated Acts. Following an analysis, the BMW Group’s business
activities can best be summarised under the following economic
activities1:
— Economic activity 3.3 “Manufacture of low carbon technolo!
gies for transport” including the production of passenger cars
and motorcycles.
— Economic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles” including the acquisition,
financing, lease and operation of automobiles and motor!
cycles.
Based on the descriptions of the two economic activities listed
for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” and
in consideration of the additional clarification by the EU Com!
mission regarding the Taxonomy eligibility of vehicles with
combustion engines under economic activity 3.3, a large part of
the BMW Group’s business model falls within the scope of the
EU Taxonomy Annex . 2
Only the sale of parts and components, such as after!sales busi!
ness excluding the provision of repair services, the supply of
components for production to BMW Brilliance up to and including
n order to identify the specific carbon emissions of PHEV that
are not determined in line with Regulation (EU) 2019/631 (USA,
China, etc.), assumptions were made based on the worst!case
value for that vehicle model, even though these emissions may
have been lower in reality.
Avoidance of significant harm
Compliance with the DNSH criteria was reviewed in the reporting
year for the five additional environmental objectives, based in
each case on the specific requirements for economic activity 3.3
“Manufacture of low carbon technologies for transport” and eco!
nomic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger cars and
light commercial vehicles”.
The vehicle portfolio for economic activity 6.5 includes
BMW Group vehicles and vehicles from other manufacturers. As
no data are available regarding the relevant attributes of these
third!party products, it is not currently possible to make a com!
prehensive assessment in relation to the DNSH criteria. For this
reason, these vehicles are not currently reported as Taxonomy!
aligned.
Climate change adaptation
A robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment is required for
both economic activity 3.3 and economic activity 6.5 to determine
that they do not cause significant harm to Environmental Objec!
tive II. It considers the physical climate risks at all key BMW Group
production sites as well as any potential damage that may occur
as a result of climate change based on long!term climate projec!
tion scenarios*up to 2034 and 2050. Moreover, we consider po!
tential natural hazards at all of our direct supplier locations in
order to adequately take supply risks into account when se!
lecting and evaluating suppliers. Adaptive solutions to mitigate
risks are drawn up and implemented as appropriate based on   EU Taxonomy
79
EU TAXONOMY
Within the framework of the implementation of the European
Green Deal and the Action Plan “Financing Sustainable Growth”,
the EU Taxonomy is a cornerstone of the EU’s aspiration to be!
come climate!neutral by 2050. Its key objectives are to increase
transparency and provide an objective benchmark for capital
market participants in order to channel capital flows towards
environmentally sustainable economic activities.
The EU Taxonomy is a classification system that defines eco!
nomic activities as environmentally sustainable based on fulfil!
ment of predetermined technical screening criteria.
Essentially, an economic activity can only be classified as sustain!
able if it substantially contributes to one of the following six en!
vironmental objectives:
I. Climate change mitigation
II. Climate change adaptation
III. Sustainable use and protection of water and marine
resources
IV. Transition to a circular economy
V. Pollution prevention and control
VI. Protection and restoration of biodiversity and
ecosystems
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
This contribution is based on fulfilment of specific predetermined
requirements. Moreover, no other environmental objective may
be significantly harmed as a result of performing the activity and
the Company involved must observe minimum safeguards,
among them compliance with human rights.
On the basis of the phased introduction of the EU Taxonomy in
the Delegated Acts, companies such as the BMW Group were
required to report the Taxonomy!eligible proportion of their rev!
enues, capital expenditures and operating expenditures for
Environmental Objectives I and II for the first time in the previous
year. Since reporting year 2022, the reporting requirements have
been expanded to include Taxonomy!aligned proportions for
both these environmental objectives. The reporting scope is
expected to be expanded to the environmental objectives III to
VI starting with the reporting year 2024.
Our holistic understanding of sustainability
The BMW Group supports the overarching goal of the EU Taxon!
omy to promote the private financing of environmentally sustain!
able economic activities in order to make Europe the world’s first
climate!neutral continent by 2050. As a company aspiring to
achieve net zero across its entire value chain by no later than
2050, we welcome all initiatives that serve this objective. As part
of this commitment, the BMW Group had already set ambitious,
science!based targets for all three scopes in 2020, which it aims
to achieve by 2030 (base year 2019). These goals were validated
by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Each year, the
BMW Group Report informs about the level of progress. ! Strategy
In the coming years, the significant growth in electromobility will
imply that the majority of carbon emissions will be generated
within the upstream value chain, rather than primarily in the use
phase. Without the anticipated set of measures to reduce carbon
emissions generated within the BMW Group supply chain, these
emissions would already exceed actual carbon emissions in
the use phase prior to 2030. ! Strategy, ! Production and Supplier
Network, ! Carbon emissions Accordingly, the BMW Group is taking
a holistic approach to achieving its sustainability!related targets
and is committed to considering carbon emissions over the
entire life cycle of the vehicles produced. ! Carbon emissions How!
ever, for the economic activities that are relevant to the
BMW Group, the EU Taxonomy focuses exclusively on reducing
carbon emissions during the use phase that are attributable to
low!emissions (until 2025) and emissions!free drive systems.
Indirect carbon emissions, for instance those produced when
generating charging current or during the energy!intensive pro!
duction of high!voltage batteries, are not taken into account in
the context of these economic activities. Moreover, the EU Tax!
onomy only reflects the impact of decarbonisation measures in
in!house production to the extent that they serve to manufacture
Taxonomy!aligned products or to the extent that they are explic!
itly included in the description of an activity. The deficit of this
approach is shown by the example that increasing the energy
efficiency of paint shop processes also reduces carbon emissions
in in!house production when a conventionally powered vehicle
is painted. In light of the BMW Group’s selected economic activ!
ities, its sustainability efforts in this regard are not, or are only
partially, taken into account in the EU Taxonomy.
      
 EU Taxonomy
80
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report
Other Information
   Explanatory comments on reporting procedures
Explanatory comments on reporting procedures for the reporting
year 2022, we are reporting on Taxonomy alignment for the first
time in relation to Environmental Objective I “Climate change
mitigation” and Environmental Objective II “Climate change
adaptation”, in addition to reporting on Taxonomy eligibility.
Taxonomy eligibility is an initial indicator of the maximum envi!
ronmental sustainability potential of economic activities as
defined by the EU Taxonomy. Taxonomy alignment, on the other
hand, serves as an indicator of an organisation’s transformation
towards environmentally sustainable economic activities.
An economic activity is to be seen as Taxonomy!eligible if it is
described in the Delegated Acts relating to one of the six envi!
ronmental objectives, regardless of whether that economic
activity meets the technical screening criteria stipulated in those
Delegated Acts. Following an analysis, the BMW Group’s business
activities can best be summarised under the following economic
activities1:
— Economic activity 3.3 “Manufacture of low carbon technolo!
gies for transport” including the production of passenger cars
and motorcycles.
— Economic activity 6.5 “Transport by motorbikes, passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles” including the acquisition,
financing, lease and operation of automobiles and motor!
cycles.
Based on the descriptions of the two economic activities listed
for Environmental Objective I “Climate change mitigation” and
in consideration of the additional clarification by the EU Com!
mission regarding the Taxonomy eligibility of vehicles with
combustion engines under economic activity 3.3, a large part of
the BMW Group’s business model falls within the scope of the
EU Taxonomy Annex . 2
Only the sale of parts and components, such as after!sales busi!
ness excluding the provision of repair services, the supply of
components for production to BMW Brilliance up to and including
Explanatory comments on reporting procedures
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
              Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equip!
ment of the BMW Group were more than 19 % Taxonomy!
aligned. This proportion more than doubles to 43 % in relation
to additions recorded by the Automotive and Motorcycle seg!
ments. The latter highlights the high proportion of Taxonomy!
aligned capital expenditure of the Automotive segment.
The growing share of zero!emissions vehicles, the development
and production methods used, and – where applicable – contri!
butions made to other environmental objectives as yet to be
defined are expected to lead to an increase in Taxonomy!aligned
revenues, capital expenditure and operating expenditure. Due to
the high level of investment in the transformation of our business
activities, for example in the electrification of our vehicles and
research into alternative drivetrains, these economic activities
have the potential to become Taxonomy!aligned over time. Over!
all, we anticipate that the proportion of Taxonomy!aligned eco!
nomic activities will steadily rise as a result of the increasing
electrification of our product portfolio. ! Strategy
The contribution of the two economic activities considered for
Environmental Objective II is subsumed in the contribution re!
ported for Environmental Objective I. Regardless of the taxonomy
criteria, the BMW Group regularly and comprehensively addresses
risks arising from climate change and their potential impact on its
locations and supply chains.
! DNSH adaptation to climate change, ! TCFD climate risks
As the overview tables from Delegated Regulation (EU) 2021/2178
do not provide a detailed picture of the BMW Group’s business
model per economic activity, the following table provides detailed
information about the three performance indicators for both eco!
— Economic activity 6.5, “Transport by motorbikes, passenger
cars and light commercial vehicles”
The Taxonomy!aligned shares for the three performance
indicators were at a low single!digit level for the Financial
Services segment. This was due to the fact that – compared
to the Automotive segment – there is a time lag before the
effects of the vehicle fleet electrification ramp!up are felt in
the financing and leasing lines of business. A further reason
is the stricter DNSH requirements for economic activity 6.5,
in particular those relating to environmental objective V
“Pollution prevention and control”, which lead to the exclu!
sion of all PHEV and a significant restriction in the recognition
of BEV in the scope of EU Taxonomy reporting (for details see
Section “Avoidance of significant harm”). In addition, with
economic activity 6.5, third!party brands can only be included
in the vehicle portfolio under restrictive conditions, such as
for the purpose of assigning tyre categories or WLTP
emissions values as part of the process of testing compliance
with the DNSH criteria. As a result, no specific deductions
can be allocated, with the consequence that the models con!
cerned must be excluded from the scope of reporting on Tax!
onomy alignment.
nomic activities.


Supply chains and supplier network
The year 2022 was dominated by fragile supply chains and rising
prices for many materials. The cost drivers for the BMW Group’s
Purchasing team were primarily the price hikes seen for raw ma!
terials, semiconductors, energy and transportation coupled with
a challenging supply situation. The combined impact of supply
bottlenecks for semiconductor components, the temporarily
restricted availability of wire harnesses owing to the war in
Ukraine, and pandemic!related lockdowns in China led to pro!
duction interruptions worldwide, particularly in the first half of the
year. Although the situation eased slightly during the second six!
month period, global supply chains remained in a fragile state.
! Outlook, ! Risks and opportunities
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
The BMW Group follows the principle of procuring vehicle com!
ponents close to its production sites to the extent possible and
is therefore represented by local teams in all its key purchasing
markets, in order to identify risks promptly and respond flexibly
to the respective market circumstances. In the face of geostra!
tegic aspects, a resilient strategy for the Group’s supply chains
is also becoming increasingly important and the BMW Group
takes this fact into account when selecting its partners.
In!house production: a competitive advantage
The BMW Group regularly examines its range of products in
terms of their profitability and strategic importance. A special
focus is currently on e!mobility. In this central area of transfor!
mation, the BMW Group is building up its own skill sets in stra!
tegically important components, particularly in areas where tech!
nology is not competitively available on the market. The in!house
production of certain key components also helps us to improve
the level of supply security and thus gain a competitive advan!
tage. At the same time, we are looking to strengthen our pro!
cess!related expertise in technologies relevant for quality man!
agement within the supplier network.
Quality assurance
Quality is a vital competitive factor and of key importance for
ensuring customer satisfaction. Our quality experts monitor the
entire product development process, including the phases of in!
dustrialisation and series production. Regular visits to suppliers
and a preventive, systematic review of all processes are aimed
at ensuring the agreed quality.

  The volatile situation on energy and raw materials markets had
a major impact on purchasing over the course of 2022. There are
signs of increasing competition for the raw materials required to
drive forward electric mobility. With the help of measures such
as the direct purchase of lithium and cobalt, the BMW Group is
making itself technologically and regionally less dependent on
individual deposits and suppliers. Direct purchasing in Australia,
Argentina and Morocco underpin our dual intention of securing
raw material supplies, whilst also maintaining our high sustain!
ability standards, particularly in supply chains involving critical
raw materials. At the same time, the BMW Group analyses the
development of raw materials prices and hedges against price
fluctuations – provided the capital market offers the opportunity
to do so. ! Raw materials price risks and opportunities
* Direct and indirect purchasing;
this includes the entire year 2022 for BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd.
   
   Production and Supplier Network
 111
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
Our commitment to upholding environmental and social
standards as well as human rights in our raw materials supply
chains is enshrined in the ! BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct and
the ! High#level commitment to sustainable natural rubber among
others. The BMW Group Supplier Code of Conduct also requires
Tier!1 suppliers to demand minimum standards within their
sub!supplier chains.
Annual risk analyses regarding the BMW Group’s sustainability
standards are the starting point for raw materials!related hedg!
ing activities that are designed to reduce environmental and
human rights risks. Key levers in this respect are to forgo, sub!
stitute or reduce the use of primary risk raw materials. We also
focus in particular on cooperating closely with our partners in the
supplier network as well as in multi!stakeholder initiatives and
projects. We use scientific findings to gain an even better under!
standing of the raw material extraction process and to take it into
account accordingly when analysing the level of risk in order to
further reduce any negative impacts.
The BMW Group places a particular focus on so!called “conflict
minerals” and uses standardised Responsible Minerals Initiative
(RMI) tools to ensure that the raw materials deployed can be
traced back to the smelter. It uses existing certifications to ensure
the origin of other raw materials. The BMW Group is also involved
in developing certified standards for critical stages of the value
chain, for example as part of the Initiative for Responsible Mining
Assurance (IRMA), and subsequently applies them. Further de!
tails and raw materials profiles are available ! online. ! SASB Index
Moreover, the BMW Group has set itself the goal of generating a
positive impact for selected raw materials through our involve!
ment in local development projects. During the year under report,
for example, we initiated a project with a locally based NGO to
improve living conditions associated with the mining of the raw
material mica in India.
Purchasing battery cells
As of 2025, the BMW Group plans to deploy a new generation of
battery cells. We have therefore concluded agreements with our
partners that guarantee annual production capacities of 40 GWh
in Europe, 40 GWh in China and 30 GWh in the USA. Via this
strategy, the Company is reinforcing its “local for local” approach
by sourcing battery cells regionally where our production facilities
are located. The BMW Group will also use secondary raw mate!
rials to replace the primary raw materials cobalt, lithium and
nickel in the new generation of battery cells and purchase green
electricity in order to further reduce the size of our carbon foot!
print in the supply chain. ! Carbon emissions in the supply chain
Supply security
To cushion the impact of the ongoing war in Ukraine on our
European plants, the BMW Group has introduced a comprehen!
sive raft of measures with its partners and therefore continues
to source components from western Ukraine. At the same time,
our partners have established additional production sites outside
Ukraine and the supply of wiring harnesses to our plants has
returned to normal as a result.
Lockdowns in China designed to contain the coronavirus pan!
demic kept supply chains on tenterhooks, not to mention the
challenging supply situation for semiconductors. In an effort to
mitigate the worldwide shortage of semiconductors, among other
measures the BMW Group has entered into supply agreements
involving increased levels of buffer stock when placing orders, as
well as the direct purchase of strategically important semicon!
ductors.

Cooperation in the supplier network based on trust and the de!
velopment of new partnerships is essential for us when it comes
to swiftly deploying innovations in the products on offer. In this
context, we work closely with the ! BMW Startup Garage and ! BMW
i Ventures. At Newcomer Day 2022, selected start!ups presented
a broad range of future technologies – including our new partner
for innovative natural fibre composite solutions.
The highly innovative achievements of start!ups are also reflected
in the ! BMW Supplier Innovation Award. During the year under report,
various companies won awards in the categories of e!mobility,
sustainability, digitalisation, customer experience, exceptional
team performance and Newcomer of the Year, which are essen!
tial for driving forward transformation.
    
    Production and Supplier Network
112
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
  Digitalisation in the supply chain
A digital flow of information throughout the supply chain is a
prerequisite for more resilient and flexible supply chain manage!
ment.
! Catena#X is one of the largest ongoing projects in the automotive
industry. It is open to all BMW Group partners and designed to
enable data exchange across the various levels of the value chain
between automotive manufacturers and their suppliers. With the
platform due to be launched in 2023, Catena!X is expected to
offer an end!to!end solution that will lead to closer and even
more coordinated cooperation between partners. One of our aims
is to improve transparency and response speed by regularly com!
paring the demand and capacity situation in order to adjust the
supply of parts at short notice. Further improvements are expect!
ed for the network partners, whether raw materials suppliers,
n!Tier suppliers or automotive manufacturers, for example in
terms of delivery reliability and customer satisfaction. At the
same time, costs can be effectively cut by improving capacity
utilisation and avoiding special procurement processes. Record!
ing carbon emissions data in supply chains enables measures
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to be agreed upon and their
effectiveness verified going forward. The BMW Group has already
begun preparations for the pilot tests of the initial applications.
Social and environmental responsibility
The BMW Group considers responsible supply chain manage!
ment as an integral part of good corporate governance. Against
the backdrop of the Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (Lieferket!
tensorgfaltspflichtengesetz), the BMW Group continued to de!
velop its well!established processes during the year under report.
The BMW Group’s requirements and the expectations it places
on its suppliers are set out in the ! BMW Group Supplier Code of Con#
duct. ! GRI Index: 2#23, 3#3, 407#1, 408#1
Due diligence in the supplier network
A multi!stage due diligence process has been established across
all relevant areas of the organisation to delineate our responsi!
bility for the supplier network. A comprehensive description of
the due diligence process can be found ! online.
The BMW Group is committed to the application of standardised
procedures and a cooperative approach with a view to imple!
menting the due diligence obligations that are integrated in its
business processes and avoiding redundant activities. For this
reason, we engage in the Sector Dialogue Automotive Industry
initiative, for example to develop guidelines for action and create
an industry!wide grievance mechanism.
— Risk analysis
The BMW Group monitors and assesses sustainability and
human rights risks in its supplier network, including its busi!
ness relationships with both potential and active supplier
locations. Among other strategies, we use risk filters and
media analyses to identify abstract environmental and hu!
man rights risks, as well as standardised sustainability ques!
tionnaires and audits to conduct specific risk analysis at our
Tier!1 suppliers. Supply chain mapping forms the basis for
analysing risks at n!Tier suppliers.
! GRI Index: 2#24, 308#1, 414#1
— Prevention and remediation
Prior to signing a contract with the BMW Group, suppliers are
required to implement any necessary preventive or remedial
measures to minimise potential risks or eliminate any deficits
that may have been identified – including those in the areas
of corporate governance, human rights and working condi!
tions, health and safety, and environmental protection – by
an agreed target date, no later than the start of production,
and to demand that these measures are also complied with
by subcontractors. ! Further GRI Information, ! Sustainability
assessment of relevant supplier sites The extent of the preventive
measures is partially based on the potential risks, the nature
and scope of the business activity and the size of the suppli!
er. Alongside its preventive measures, the BMW Group offers
a training programme on sustainability in the supply chain
aimed at internal buyers and process partners as well as
suppliers. ! GRI Index: 2#24, 308#2, 414#2
— Effectiveness and grievance mechanisms
For suppliers operating in high!risk regions or high!risk prod!
uct groups, the BMW Group has implemented additional
control mechanisms, such as audits of environmental and
social standards at supplier locations using its own auditors
or external auditors. The Group reviewed a total of 49 poten!
tial and active supplier locations via this method during the
year under report (2021: 38)1, 2. We have set ourselves the
target of ensuring that all Tier!1 supplier sites that have been
audited meet the locally applicable legal requirements for
sustainability as well as international human rights standards
(BMW Group minimum requirements). In 2022, the final au!
dits confirmed that all cases of non!compliance with mini!
mum requirements (non!conformities) that were identified in
initial audits had been redressed.
The internal Human Rights Contact Supply Chain unit deals
with any indications of possible violations of the sustainability
requirements stipulated by the BMW Group for the supplier
network. We also use the standardised RBA Voices grievance
mechanism as a complementary measure. In addition,
! whistle#blower systems to detect possible legal violations are in
place and compliance checks performed. Our aim is to ensure
that any substantiated reports of environmental or human
rights violations are redressed by agreeing on corrective
measures.

 Our employees continue to play a key role in ensuring that diver!
sity, equal opportunity and inclusion are actively practised. Many
employees are involved in internal networks that have been set
up, including a number of women’s networks at various locations
and the BMW Group PRIDE group, which campaigns across bor!
ders for the interests of the LGBTIQ+2 community. The dialogue
generated by these internal networks creates further momentum
for the BMW Group’s commitment to this area.
Concepts to promote diversity, equal opportunity and inclusion
have also been developed in relation to the composition of the
Board of Management and Supervisory Board. Information on
the stipulated diversity criteria and their implementation is pro!
vided in the ! Corporate Governance Statement.
! GRI Index: 3#3, 405#1
Increasing the share of women
The BMW Group is working continuously to increase the share
of women in the workforce as a whole and in management func!
tions in particular. This remains a challenging task in that it is still
the case that more men go through the process of vocational
training, particularly in technical fields, and are therefore in the
majority on the market.
The BMW Group has set targets for the percentage share of
women at all levels of the Company. By 2025, we aim to increase
the share of women in the BMW Group workforce as a whole to
between 20 and 22 % and to between 17 to 19 % for BMW AG.
We aim to boost the share of women holding management
positions in the BMW Group to 22 % by 2025, and to 20 % for
BMW AG.
The share of women in management functions 3 within the
BMW Group has been rising steadily for many years. Globally,
the share of female managers in the BMW Group stood at 20.2 %
at the end of the year under report (2021: 18.8 %). During the
period from 2011 to 2022, the number of women in management
positions in BMW AG has more than doubled.
Expressed as a percentage, the share of female managers at
BMW AG was 18.2 % at the end of 2022 (2021: 17.5 %).
The share of women in the BMW Group workforce as a whole
reached 18.6 % (2021: 19.7 %). For BMW AG, the share was
16.5 % (2021: 16.0 %). ! Further GRI Information
The BMW Group is also aware of the need to achieve a high per!
centage of women in our future talents programmes. By doing
so, we aim to ensure that the share of women in the total
workforce and in management functions continues to rise in the
future. The proportion remained high in the trainee programme
(Global Leader Development Programme 5) in 2022 at 45 %
(2021: 47 %). The same applied to the student support pro!
grammes (Fastlane, SpeedUp), with a proportion of around 31 %
(2021: 32 %). For our vocational training in STEM subjects (sci!
ence, technology, engineering and mathematics), the share of
women at BMW AG in 2022 was 16.1 % (2021: 15.6 %), and 16.4 %
(2021: 16.1 %) in the BMW Group 6.
1 The share of employees with severe disabilities is based on the statutory requirements in accordance
with the German Social Code (SGB IX).
2 Abbreviation for all sexual orientations and forms of identity.
3 For a definition of the term management functions, please refer to the ! Glossary.
4 For a definition of the term employee, please refer to the ! Glossary.
5 Trainee programme renamed to AcceleratiON for new trainees from 4/2023.
6 Including BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., China, and BMW Group plant Mexico;
excluding sales companies.

  Risks and Opportunities
129
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report
Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report Remuneration Report
Other Information
According to our Group!wide guidelines, every employee and
manager has a duty to report risks via the relevant reporting
channels. The key elements of the risk management processes
and an appropriate risk culture are embedded in the BMW Group’s
RISK MANAGEMENT IN THE BMW GROUP
  Internal revision and external audit
    core values, the Group’s extensive rules and regulations on risk
management and in its overall risk strategy. Furthermore, the Internal
Control
BMW Group’s risk management strategy is continually developed System
to reflect new findings and requirements. Training programmes
and informational events are regularly conducted throughout the
BMW Group, particularly within the risk management network.
The risk management process is applicable across the entire
Group and comprises the early identification, analysis and meas! Risk
urement of risks, the use of appropriate risk management tools Management
System
and the monitoring and assessment of the measures taken. If no
specific reference is made, risks and opportunities relate to the
Automotive segment.
Risk measurement
The BMW Group uses standardised, suitable methods for meas!
uring all short!term risks, reputational risks and medium to long! Compliance
Management
term climate!related risks. System
Short!term risks
Risks relating to the current and subsequent financial year are
shown in the section ! Material short#term risks and opportunities.
These risks are measured using value!at!risk models and as!
sessed on the basis of uniform loss distribution metrics, thereby
enabling better comparability of risks for both internal and exter!
nal reporting purposes. Risks are measured net of any risk mit!
igation measures that are already taking effect (net basis).
Appropriateness

      
imate!related risks is measured for
two reporting periods (medium!term until 2034 and long!term
until 2050) and for three global warming scenarios.
Non!financial risks as reported in the non!financial
statement (NFS)
Alongside the maintenance of a comprehensive system of risk
management, conducting business in a sustainable manner
constitutes a core strategic principle of the BMW Group. Risks
resulting from sustainability issues are generally identified via
the Group!wide risk management network.
In accordance with § 289c of the German Commercial Code
(HGB), risks that could have an impact on the non!financial as!
pects referred to in the relevant legislation are reviewed as part
of the reporting process. Material risks in this context are defined
as those stemming from business activities, business relation!
ships and products and services provided by the BMW Group that
are highly likely to have a seriously adverse impact. No material
non!financial risks were identified during the year under report.
Opportunity management
Identifying opportunities is an integral part of the BMW Group’s
strategic planning processes. The Group’s range of products and
services is continually reviewed on the basis of these analyses.
The continuous monitoring of key business processes and strict
cost controls are also essential factors for ensuring high levels
of profitability and return on capital employed.
The importance of short!term opportunities for the BMW Group
is classified on a qualitative basis in the categories “material”
and “immaterial”. Probable measures aimed at increasing prof!
itability are already incorporated in the outlook.
Climate!related opportunities are identified progressively as part
of the ongoing strategy development process and described in
the section ! Climate#related risks and opportunities.
 
 Risks and Opportunities
131
MATERIAL SHORT,TERM
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
The overall risk situation for the BMW Group deteriorated signif!
icantly as compared with the previous year.
Consistently high inflation with lower real incomes and a corre!
sponding widespread drop in demand may have a negative im!
pact on sales volumes and result in unfavourable price and prod!
uct mix effects. Considerable uncertainties remain in the form of
potential supply bottlenecks along the entire supply chain. Higher
prices for energy, raw materials and transport may have a neg!
ative impact. The ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, as
well as the progression of the coronavirus pandemic may also
significantly affect the global economy. However, if the effect of
these issues were to prove less severe in 2023 than currently
expected, opportunities could arise that could benefit both rev!
enues and earnings.
Overall, no risks capable of threatening the continued existence
of the BMW Group were identified either at the balance sheet
date or at the date on which the Group Financial Statements were
drawn up. The Management and the Supervisory Board do not
see any threat to the BMW Group’s status as a going concern.
As in the previous year, the current set of risks to the BMW Group
are considered to be manageable. All risks and opportunities that
are expected to materialise have already been addressed in the
Outlook Report. Liquidity requirements are currently covered by
existing liquidity as well as the various financing instruments
available.
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report
Other Information
                 The following sections illustrate potential future developments
or events that could result in a negative (risk) or a positive (op!
portunity) deviation from the outlook for 2023 and 2024 and
indicate their significance to the BMW Group.
In addition, unforeseen events could affect business operations
and hence the BMW Group’s results of operations, financial
position and net assets as well as its reputation.
The following overview provides a summary of the material short!
term risks and opportunities:
Macroeconomic risks and opportunities
Strategic and sector!specific risks and opportunities

COMPLIANCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report Remuneration Report Other Information
 Compliance lays the foundation for the long!term success of the
BMW Group, builds trust in our products and brands, and shapes
our public image. Compliance is not just a matter of adhering to
applicable laws and Company rules around the world. It forms
part of our identity, our understanding of leadership and our living
culture of integrity. Compliance creates a binding framework for
all our business activities.
Compliance as a corporate function
Compliance is the managerial responsibility of the Board of Man!
agement of BMW AG, executed by creating an appropriate reg!
ulatory and supervisory framework, as well as through regular
and ad hoc reporting, accompanied by clear communications.
This approach is based on the core belief that compliance with
applicable laws and related internal regulations is the responsi!
bility of all employees. As role models, managers are tasked with
anchoring compliance culture in their area of responsibility and
ensuring compliance requirements and processes are imple!
mented accordingly. ! GRI Index: 2#23
In addition to being responsible for the Company!wide Compli!
ance Management System, the Chief Compliance Officer also
manages the Group Compliance division and briefs the Board of
Management and Supervisory Board of BMW AG at regular in!
tervals.
Compliance Management System (CMS)
The BMW Group’s Company!wide Compliance Management
System (CMS) reinforces the culture of compliance and integrity
and helps reduce sanction and liability risks, as well as risks aris!
ing from other (non!)financial disadvantages, such as reputa!
tional risks. The CMS focuses on adequacy and effectiveness and
is based on the Prevent, Detect, Respond model, which defines
specific preventive, monitoring, control and response measures.
Clear assignment of roles and responsibilities is also essential.
The CMS is tailored to the Company’s risk situation and address!
es all relevant compliance topics. Company!wide, these include
corruption and fraud prevention, anti!money!laundering, antitrust
and human rights compliance, export control, data privacy and
product compliance. Responsibility for data privacy and product
compliance lies with separate specialist departments outside
Group Compliance. ! GRI Index: 2#27, 205#1, 205#3, 206#1
Further development of CMS
The CMS is reviewed on a regular basis and refined as needed.
The main drivers are strategic focus topics, legal and regulatory
requirements and trends, best practices and industry standards,
all of which are taken into account from a risk perspective. The
objective is to consistently improve the CMS. The BMW Group is
an active member of various associations and interest groups,
including the German Institute for Compliance (DICO) at Board
level and through its leadership of the working group on human
rights.

144
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
One focus of work in the field of compliance during the reporting
period was on amending the human rights compliance pro!
gramme in response to the Supply Chain Due Diligence Act,
which took effect on 1 January 2023. Since January 2022, the
head of Group Compliance has also served as Human Rights
Officer of BMW AG. Further priority areas emerged in the context
of export control, due to the war in Ukraine, and in anti!money!
laundering efforts, due to the increase in legislative initiatives.
One component of the CMS is the Data Privacy Management
System (DMS), which is the responsibility of Group Data Privacy
Protection, and also based on the Prevent, Detect, Respond mod!
el. The data protection directive (Privacy Corporate Rules) and
Binding Corporate Rules, which contractually protect the transfer
of employee data within the BMW Group, form the basis of the
DMS. Implementation of the DMS is validated through regular
reporting by affiliated companies and independent audits carried
out by Group Data Privacy Protection.
As part of the CMS, responsibility for product compliance, with a
focus on compliance with technical requirements for BMW Group
products, lies with the Quality Management division. The pro!
gramme was further developed during the reporting year as
part of a broad!based project, with a primary focus on integrating
the governance function more closely into operating processes
and expanding training and communications activities. Prod!
uct!specific risk assessments ensure holistic risk monitoring.
   Compliance and Human Rights
145
BMW Group Report 2022 To Our Stakeholders Combined Management Report Group Financial Statements Responsibility Statement and Auditor’s Report
Remuneration Report Other Information
 Company!wide compliance network
Relevant compliance risks are identified in the business depart!
ments on the basis of internal guidelines; an initial assessment
is then made and measures taken to mitigate them. More than
250 managers group!wide perform these tasks for their area of
responsibility as operational Compliance Responsibles.
Specialist departments worldwide are supported in their work
by the central Group Compliance function, as well as the network
of business unit and division Compliance Officers (heads of rel!
evant compliance functions), supplemented by around 80 local
Compliance Officers (heads of local compliance functions) at
BMW AG’s international subsidiaries. Every Compliance Officer
is tasked with implementing the CMS and compliance pro!
grammes for defined topics in their area of activity, as well as
identifying and realising division!specific compliance measures.
Expanded training activities
Training opportunities are continuously refined for specific target
groups. For example, during the year under review, we expanded
our mandatory Company!wide Compliance Essentials online
training to six languages.
Online and classroom training with case studies and test ques!
tions, repeated every two years, strengthens the compliance
culture and reinforces compliant behaviour. More than 81,000
staff and managers worldwide have so far completed the Com!
pliance Essentials training and 38,000 have received antitrust
compliance training.* This offering is supplemented by manda!
tory data privacy training, which is available in 13 languages
worldwide, and training courses on ! human rights.
! GRI Index: 205#2
Digitalisation supports compliance
IT!based compliance systems have been used for transparent
and efficient documentation, assessment and approval of com!
pliance!relevant matters Company!wide for years. This includes
topics such as money laundering and sanctions lists, exchange
activities with competitors, business partner due diligence
and verifying the legal admissibility of benefits in kind. The data
collected in this way forms the basis for the compliance risk
assessment.
Compliance and notification systems
Employees with questions or concerns relating to compliance
can discuss these matters with their managers or relevant
departments and, specifically, with the compliance functions.
Reports may also be submitted anonymously and confidentially
in several languages via the BMW Group SpeakUP Line notifica!
tion system or via the ombudsperson. ! Checking effectiveness. The
Compliance Contact serves as a further point of contact for both
employees and external parties.

1. **Central Wheel**:
   - The main part of the diagram is a circular wheel divided into several sections representing different stages of the risk management process:
     - **Identification**: Recognizing potential risks.
     - **Analysis and Measurement**: Assessing and quantifying risks.
     - **Performance Management**: Monitoring and managing the effectiveness of risk management strategies.
     - **Measures**: Implementing strategies to mitigate identified risks.
     - **Effectiveness**: Evaluating the effectiveness of the risk measures.
     - **Reporting/Monitoring**: Continuous reporting and monitoring of risk status.
     - **Appropriateness**: Ensuring that risk strategies are appropriate for the identified risks.

2. **Surrounding Nodes**:
   - **Risk Management System**: Highlighted as a link between the internal control system and the compliance management system, indicating that risk management is central and interacts with other systems to ensure overall governance.
   - **Internal Control System**: Suggests that the control mechanisms are designed to manage and mitigate risks effectively.
   - **Compliance Management System**: Shows the compliance aspect of risk management, ensuring that all operations align with legal and regulatory standards.

3. **Steering Committee Risk Management**:
   - This entity appears to be a pivotal part of the framework, directing the risk management activities and possibly overseeing the implementation of the risk management policies and procedures.

4. **Board of Management and Supervisory Board**:
   - These are shown as interconnected yet distinct entities, where the Board of Management is responsible for day-to-day management and the Supervisory Board has an oversight role. There’s a dotted line suggesting indirect communication or reporting from the Board of Management to the Supervisory Board.

Overall, the diagram effectively showcases how a structured risk management process is implemented in a corporate setting, emphasizing continuous monitoring and adaptation of strategies to manage and mitigate risks effectively. It also highlights the governance structure ensuring oversight and direction at various levels of the organization.