TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
ABOUT THIS REPORT
About this report
Reporting principles information not contained in the NfR or the combined Group
management report and management report of Brenntag SE,
This combined separate non-financial report (NfR) for finan- and SASB and TCFD indices.
cial year 2022 is the tenth report published by Brenntag on its
sustainability activities since 2013. This year, the NfR has for The NfR has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH
the first time been integrated into the Annual Report and will Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) pursuant to ISAE 3000
not therefore be published as a standalone sustainability (Revised) to obtain limited assurance. The Practitioner’s
report. It is not part of the Group management report. Report can be found on pages 144 – 145. The NfR was also
preliminarily analyzed and audited by the Supervisory Board’s
This NfR is based on international standards for sustainability Audit Committee and subsequently by the entire Supervisory
reporting and therefore takes into account the interests of Board.
investors, customers, partners, suppliers, NGOs, employees
and interested members of the public: Information on the business model can be found in the com-
bined Group management report and management report of
■ The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI, index on page 134), Brenntag SE on pages 147-148.
■ The principles of the United Nations Global Compact
(UNGC), In this NfR, correlations have been identified with amounts
■ The standards issued by the Sustainability Accounting reported in the consolidated financial statements. Informa-
Standards Board (SASB, SASB “Chemicals” standard and tion on environmental provisions amounting to EUR 108.9 mil-
SASB “Road transportation” standard, index on page 141), lion for the clean-up of soil and groundwater at current and
■ The standard issued by the Task Force on Climate- former, owned or leased sites can be found under note 25 to
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD, index on page 139). the consolidated financial statements for financial year 2022.
The TCFD looks at the financial risks that climate
change poses to companies’ business performance. Identification of material content
This NfR was prepared in accordance with Section 315c in The issues presented in the materiality matrix on page 99
conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e of the German Com- form the basis for determining the NfR content. The matrix is
mercial Code (HGB) and meets the legal requirements of the the result of a materiality analysis that was updated in 2022
HGB. It also contains the mandatory disclosures in accordance in that the stakeholders included assessed the relevance and
with Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and the effects of the various topics. The materiality analysis was
of the Council of 18 June 2020 on the establishment of a thus updated for the second time since it was first conducted
framework to facilitate sustainable investment, and amend- in 2015. In order to determine the material topics for the NfR,
ing Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 (EU Taxonomy Regulation). Brenntag adhered to the requirements of Section 289c, para.
2 in conjunction with para. 3 of the German Commercial Code
To provide a structured presentation of this content, Brenntag (HGB) and the Global Reporting Initiative standards. These
has used the GRI standards as a framework. The description topics were assessed for the NfR using the following criteria:
of the requirements under the HGB is based on the structure
of the GRI management approaches. This structure is used in ■ Topics that are necessary to form an understanding
the description of the materiality analysis as well as for man- of the business performance, the financial results, the
agement approaches relating to “environmental matters”, company’s position and the effects of Brenntag’s
“employee matters”, “respect for human rights”, “anti-corrup- activities on non-financial aspects (environmental,
tion and bribery matters” and “responsibility in the supply social and employee matters, respect for human rights,
chain” (GRI 3: Material Topics 2021). In addition, a GRI Content anti-corruption and bribery matters, responsibility
Index contrasts the GRI indicators with the corresponding in the supply chain, and sustainable governance)
passages in the report. This GRI Content Index is published ■ Topics rated between “high and very high” in at least one
from page 134. The following disclosures are additional of the dimensions
information and not part of this separate NfR and therefore ■ Topics that form part of Brenntag’s Group strategy and/
not subject to the audit: the GRI Content Index, references to or its ESG strategy and the objectives contained in it.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 92 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
ABOUT THIS REPORT
In the reporting period, Brenntag looked closely at the mate- activities and employees’ involvement outside the NfR so that
rial topics and updated the materiality analysis against the this important topic is addressed. In addition to the aspects
background of the ESG strategy (please see page 99). Com- covered by the law, Brenntag has identified “Responsibility in
pared with the previous year, there were both some linguistic the supply chain” and “Sustainable governance”. As the mar-
changes and a revision of the scope of the list of topics. The ket leader in chemicals and ingredients distribution, Brenntag
materiality analysis was submitted to and discussed and believes it has a responsibility to reduce negative effects with
decided upon by the Board of Management. This materiality regard to non-financial aspects within the supply chain and
process identified the following topics as being material to to strengthen positive effects. Among other things, Brenntag’s
Brenntag within the meaning of the law: understanding of the topic of sustainable governance is
that sustainability aspects are important decision criteria in
Material topics pursuant to Section 289c, portfolio and investment decisions and on M&A projects.
para. 2 in conjunction with para. 3 of the
German Commercial Code Data basis and calculation
This NfR covers Brenntag SE, which is included in the con-
Aspects Issue and page reference
solidated financial statements, as well as the consolidated
subsidiaries, which are also included along with structured
Safe handling of chemicals
(page 107) entities. For information on the group of consolidated com-
Combating climate change panies and consolidation method, see page 197 and page
(page 116) 202, as well as the list of companies included in the consol-
Waste and packaging idated financial statements, page 265. Any deviations from
(page 121)
these parameters are indicated in the relevant section of
Environmental matters More sustainable products this NfR.
(page 103)
Circular business models
The reporting period for this NfR covers the Brenntag Group’s
(page 121)
financial year 2022 (January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022).
Responsible use of water
(resources) (page 122) Any deviations in the reporting periods for individual data and
contents are noted separately.
Climate resilience (page 104)
Occupational health and safety
(page 106) The contents and data provided in this report have been
determined on the basis of internal processes. They derive
People development and training
Employee matters (page 111) from Brenntag’s existing management and data-recording
Respectful and caring work systems and from company documents and have been
environment (page 108) obtained from the operational units of Brenntag’s regions
Compliance and corporate as well as the responsible corporate departments. The con-
Respect for human rights governance (page 101, 112) tent of this report has been reviewed by employees with
Anti-corruption and bribery Compliance and corporate the relevant specialist expertise.
matters governance (page 101)
(Not material within the meaning Boundaries of material topics pursuant to GRI
Social matters of Section 289c, para. 3,
sentence 1 HGB)
The diagram on page 94 shows the boundaries of the mate-
Responsibility Responsible supplier rial topics pursuant to the GRI. The relevant GRI standards cov-
in the supply chain management (page 112)
ered by each topic are also indicated. For topics that are not
Integration of sustainability in
Sustainable governance governance structures (page 103) covered by the GRI standards, we have referred directly to
the corresponding management approaches in the NfR
3.01 Material topics pursuant to Section 289c, para. 2 and, if necessary, to our website as an additional source of
in conjunction with para. 3 of the German Commercial Code information.
Based on the materiality analysis performed in 2022, the
Social matters were identified as being immaterial to following overview shows an updated presentation of the
Brenntag within the meaning of the law and were therefore material topics and boundaries.
not included in the NfR. However, Brenntag will report on social
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 93 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
THE BUSINESS MODEL
SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG
The business model
Brenntag is the global market leader in chemicals and ingre-
dients distribution. The company plays a central role in con-
necting customers and suppliers of the chemical industry. In
the field of sustainability, Brenntag pursues specific goals
and is committed to sustainable solutions in its own sector
and the industries served. In doing so, we identify the sustain-
ability needs of our numerous customer industries and work
together with our suppliers to develop appropriate products
and services. You can read more about the business model
on page 147 of the Group management report.
Sustainability at Brenntag
Strategy Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2022, thereby committing to have
its climate goals validated within the next two years. These
As the global market leader in chemicals and ingredients are science-based, 1.5°C-aligned goals. In 2022, the company
distribution, Brenntag aims to fulfill its responsibility and developed its sustainability vision Future Sustainable
play a significant role in shaping the future of the industry. Brenntag and formulated an ESG strategy, from which clearly
We support our partners in our networks and promote defined and ambitious medium- and long-term goals will be
collaboration, excellence and shared success. derived along the value chain. Brenntag is thus taking the
lead in shaping the sustainable future of global chemical dis-
Sustainability has been an integral part of Brenntag’s corpo- tribution.
rate strategy for many years now. Since as far back as 2014,
the company has been a member of the UN Global Compact Focus areas
and committed to its principles for human rights, labor stan-
dards, environmental protection and fighting corruption. Through its new ESG strategy, Brenntag is paving the way to
Since October 2014, Brenntag has been involved in Together achieve its long-term sustainability vision Future Sustainable
for Sustainability (TfS), an initiative that works to enhance Brenntag. The strategy comprises the following six focus areas:
sustainability in the chemical industry supply chain. In
October 2016, Brenntag became the first chemical distributor ■ Management structures for business ethics
to obtain full membership in TfS. ■ Portfolio and investment steering
■ Fair and safe employer
In 2020, the CEO signed the Global Compact Statement from ■ Responsible partner for suppliers and communities
Business Leaders for Renewed Global Cooperation together ■ Climate protection and reduction of emissions
with over 1,000 CEOs of companies from more than 100 coun- ■ Resource efficiency and circular economy
tries. In 2021, Brenntag joined the global RE100 initiative,
thereby pledging its commitment to the goal of sourcing All actions are guided by the United Nations Sustainable
100% renewable power by 2025. Development Goals (SDGs). Brenntag has identified eight
SDGs that are of most relevance to the company and to which
In order to demonstrate its leading role on the journey to an it can make the greatest contribution. These eight SDGs are:
eco-friendly and sustainable future and make an impactful good health and well-being; gender equality; affordable and
contribution, Brenntag signed up to the Science Based clean energy; decent work and economic growth; industry,
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 95 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
Governance
Management structures for In 2022, Brenntag further developed its corporate culture.
business ethics Employees from all areas of the company were involved from
the outset with a view to working out the core values together
in workshops. Brenntag wishes to embed these values in day-
to-day business and ensure that employees live the values.
A range of digital and analog resources will be on offer in 2023
and are intended to encourage employees to consciously
engage with the values, discuss them within the team and use
Values them to guide their own actions. This begins during the new
employee recruitment process, which is shaped by the
We at Brenntag are grateful for the trust that our business Brenntag values, continues during human resources develop-
partners and other stakeholders place in us on a daily basis. ment and involves interaction both among employees and
They quite rightly expect the highest level of quality, reliability with external partners.
and efficient, innovative solutions. In order to meet these
standards, Brenntag uses five central values to systemati- Compliance and integrity
cally guide its actions. All business activities and business
relationships are shaped by these values. Brenntag has traditionally attached great importance to re-
sponsible, future-oriented and sustainable corporate gover-
nance. In 2022, it continuously further developed its compli-
Care ance processes in order to continue to ensure that the
We take responsibility for each other, company and its employees comply consistently with the
our partners and the world. laws, rules and guidelines of relevance to Brenntag. This fur-
ther development took place, among other things through the
organizational expansion of the compliance department, the
Trust extension of the internal compliance reporting system and
We build relationships through authenticity the complete redesign of the compliance intranet presence.
and commitment. Internal audits are regularly conducted at all Group compa-
nies to assess compliance with internal guidelines. Internal
Audit Brenntag Group conducted a total of 28 audits in 2022.
Clarity
We work toward common goals with focus The Senior Vice President (SVP) Compliance Brenntag Group
and determination. reports on a regular basis directly to the Board of Manage-
ment, the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee during
the reporting period. The regionally appointed Regional Com-
Excellence pliance Managers, who are assisted in their work by local
We go beyond expectations through compliance contacts, regularly exchange information and
excellence, innovation and collaboration. experience with the SVP Compliance Brenntag Group. In the
reporting period, Compliance was further expanded both
centrally and locally and the organizational structure was
further developed.
Safety
We put safety first in everything we do.
Brenntag attaches great importance to setting up safe and
confidential points of contact for whistleblowers. Seventeen
confirmed incidents were reported in the reporting period.
3.06 Values of Brenntag SE
Two reports of possible corrupt actions were submitted and
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 101 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
investigations launched. In one case, the suspicion was not Data protection
confirmed at the end of the investigation. The investigation
into the second report is still ongoing. Employees and third Group-wide data protection places particular requirements
parties can access the relevant whistleblowing channels on Brenntag. Different statutory provisions have to be observed
through the Brenntag website. at each of the Group’s international sites. At the same time, it
is necessary to appropriately protect the interests of data
As a global company, Brenntag is subject to a large number subjects everywhere and ensure that data protection regula-
of local, national and international laws and regulations. It is tions are adhered to throughout the company. For this,
the responsibility of all employees to comply with these rules the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation and
without exception. Examples of such internal regulations the requirements of numerous other data protection laws
developed by Brenntag include the Code of Business Conduct (e.g. in Brazil, California [USA], China, South Africa, etc.) must
and Ethics, the Anti-corruption Guideline and other Group be implemented and best brought into line. This requires com-
guidelines based on the corporate values. prehensive and in particular local expertise, well-coordinated
communication and a data protection management system
Among other resources, the new Brenntag Compliance intra- that integrates all sites.
net site is used to familiarize employees with relevant topics
and provide extensive materials, guidelines and manuals. In As head of the Global Data Protection department, the Group
addition, Brenntag offers regular training, for example, Data Protection Officer reports independently and directly to
through the Group-wide e-learning platform in order to keep the Chief Executive Officer at regular meetings. As of this year,
employees’ knowledge of compliance topics up to date. As an Global Data Protection falls within the area of responsibility
example, the online training module on the Code of Business of the SVP Compliance Brenntag Group. Data protection
Conduct and Ethics is mandatory for employees once a year. coordinators in the various regions support the Global Data
This was completed by 94% of the relevant employees in the Protection department and report to the central unit. Data
reporting period. In addition, employees who were designated protection recommendations and developments are regu-
on the basis of their activity completed antitrust law training larly discussed with the departments.
(completed by 92% of the relevant employees) and anti-
corruption training (completed by 91% of the relevant Introduced in 2020, the global data privacy management sys-
employees). tem (One Trust) supports and automates the documentation
of all processing procedures worldwide, including the service
providers involved and the corresponding risk analyses. Since
the system was introduced, data and processes have been
Trade compliance challenges as a result managed locally and controlled centrally. In 2022, the quality
of the Russia-Ukraine war of documentation in One Trust was further improved and the
data protection coordinators in the regions received training
The war in Ukraine and its geopolitical and eco- in this regard. Further steps were taken in 2022 to drive the
nomic consequences pose particular challenges for digitalization of data protection processes. Another point of
Brenntag. As a distributor of chemical products and focus was providing support to the DiDEX initiatives, including
ingredients with a global network, Brenntag has to the auditing of service providers. In addition, the project
be mindful of a large number of rapidly changing teams involved received in-depth advice so that data protec-
laws, embargo regulations and sanctions and tion requirements are also observed from the outset by the
ensure that they are implemented. To enable it to teams being newly set up as Brenntag’s new data landscape
respond to changing situations as efficiently as is developed.
possible, Brenntag has put in place an internal crisis
team for the Russia-Ukraine war, made up of mem-
bers of various departments. To comply with the
economic sanctions imposed on the Russian
Federation, for example, Brenntag regularly reviews
business partners with the help of a sanction
checking system.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 102 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
SOCIAL
Responsible partner Measured by its total chemical spend (in EUR), Brenntag
covered around 75% (2021: 75%) through such sustainability
assessments or audits in the reporting period. On a particu-
larly encouraging note, the company continues to see its
suppliers making considerable advances in improving their
sustainability performance. By the end of 2022, for example,
it appeared that 69% of suppliers who underwent re-assess-
Supply chain and human rights ment had improved their score compared with the previous
year. This figure is particularly high in the group of suppliers
As the global market leader in chemical and ingredients dis- that had a relatively low score of under 45 in the previous year.
tribution, Brenntag takes its responsibility to uphold human As many as 73% of suppliers that underwent re-assessment
rights very seriously. The company undertakes to respect and in 2022 managed to improve their score by at least one point
defend human rights worldwide within its supply chains. compared with the previous assessment.
These are among Brenntag’s top principles. Brenntag is a
member of the UN Global Compact and committed to its ten Share of total chemical spend
Share of total chemical spend in EUR (in %)
principles for human rights, labor standards, fair remunera- in EUR (in %)
tion, environmental protection and fighting corruption. World-
wide, the company works to ensure fair working relationships
25.3%
and, as described in the ESG strategy, acts as a responsible previous year: 24.7
partner to suppliers.
In order to meet this aspiration, Brenntag has implemented
numerous measures developed centrally by various depart-
ments such as Sustainability and Compliance Brenntag 3.8%
Group. Employees can report human rights violations via the 70.9% previous year: 4.8
whistleblowing system. External third parties can also use this previous year: 70.6
system. In the reporting period, Brenntag did not receive any
reports of human rights violations within the company.
no score score 1–44 score 45–100
Brenntag minimizes the risk of human rights violations in its
complex supply chains by communicating its expectations to
3.11 Share of total chemical spend in EUR (in %)
suppliers from the outset. In its Supplier Code of Conduct,
Brenntag requests that they actively work to protect human
rights within their organization. Of course, Brenntag itself also undergoes an EcoVadis as-
sessment on a regular basis. In the most recent assessment
Since 2016, Brenntag has been a member of the industry’s published in December 2022, the company improved on its
Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. One core element previous score and achieved 77 points, the highest result in
of the joint work within TfS involves audits or online assess- the company’s history. Brenntag was awarded the EcoVadis
ments of companies in the chemical industry, for example. platinum medal for this result and thus ranks among the top
The task here is always to create and leverage synergies. 1% of all companies rated by EcoVadis. On sustainable pro-
The central idea behind the audits and assessments is that a curement, the company scores a particularly high 90 out of a
supplier assessment can be used by all member companies, possible total of 100 points and is rated as outstanding.
thereby reducing the cost and effort for suppliers. Here,
Brenntag works together with EcoVadis, a leading provider of Brenntag obtains a more detailed picture of sustainability
sustainability assessments that is well established in the performance by performing on-site supplier sustainability
chemical industry. EcoVadis evaluates companies in terms of audits. In this case, the audits are based on a catalog of
four categories: environment, labor and human rights, ethics requirements developed by TfS and cover sustainability
and sustainable procurement. In doing so, it scores the com- management, the environment, health and safety, employee
panies’ sustainability performance on a scale from 0 to 100. and human rights, and corporate governance. The results of
In addition, each company receives a detailed overview of all audits are shared within TfS. Like the other TfS members,
strengths and weaknesses as well as specific suggestions for Brenntag also accepts sustainability audits conducted in
improvement.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 112 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
SOCIAL
accordance with SQAS (Safety and Quality Assessment
System), SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) and How Brenntag is implementing the Supply
PSCI (Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative) standards. Chain Due Diligence Act
Brenntag reviews its suppliers’ audit results. If necessary, it
agrees on corrective measures with the supplier and the The German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act requires
auditor and follows up on their implementation. certain German companies to fulfill human rights
and environmental due diligence obligations within
In 2022, in preparation for the specific requirements of the their supply chain. Brenntag is required to apply this
German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act, Brenntag started to act from 2024. Given that there are several thousand
further develop its risk assessment regarding human rights suppliers and various Group companies, this pres-
violations and environmental risks for all suppliers. In addition ents an enormous challenge, which Brenntag is fully
to existing EcoVadis assessments or TfS audits, this will be committed to meeting. The act requires companies
based on an innovative IT solution that works both with pub- to create maximum transparency in the supply chain
licly accessible information (via media, for example) and with and their own area of business, carry out risk analyses
artificial intelligence. The company has also appointed a and implement actions to prevent potential breaches
human rights officer, who will monitor risk management, of due diligence obligations. In 2022, Brenntag
review the effectiveness of preventive and corrective actions, set up an interdisciplinary team of experts from
and regularly inform management about potential incidents the fields of QSHE, sustainability, compliance, legal
in future. In the reporting period, 100% of relevant Brenntag and procurement, which deals explicitly with
suppliers1) underwent the initial risk assessment process. In implementing the requirements.
addition, the company will continue working to also train its
suppliers with a greater focus on sustainability issues, to
which end it will make greater use of the TfS Academy or
e-learning resources, for example.
Brenntag is continuously developing measures to further
reduce potential risks within global supply chains. Going for-
ward, the company will continue to constantly expand its
commitment to respecting human rights across worldwide
supply chains. Not least of all, Brenntag aims to have all
suppliers covered by risk management.
1) Brenntag defines this as suppliers with a chemical spend of more than
EUR 1 million in a 12-month period.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 113 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
SOCIAL
Together for Sustainability (TfS)
Together for Sustainability is a chemical industry initia- TfS also develops standards and guidelines for the
tive. It wishes to make the sector more sustainable by industry, including the Product Carbon Footprint (PCF)
gradually establishing a uniform global program for the Guideline (see Environment, page 120). This assists
responsible procurement of goods and services in the manufacturers and suppliers in determining the envi-
chemical industry. The aim of TfS is to increase trans- ronmental footprint of their products. Brenntag was
parency over sustainability in the supply chain and im- involved in developing the Guideline. In addition, tai-
prove environmental and social standards worldwide. lored learning and development courses are offered
through the TfS Academy in order to train TfS member
TfS was established in 2011 and currently has 40 mem- companies’ procurement teams and their suppliers in
bers. In 2022, the member companies generated sustainability matters.
combined revenues of over EUR 600 billion. The mem-
bers regularly evaluate and review their suppliers by Through its involvement at TfS, Brenntag actively helps
means of a standardized process using assessments to make the chemical industry more sustainable. The
and audits. This information is shared confidentially interaction at workshops, the sharing of members’ best
and used jointly within the network, which provides practices and the synergies from the EcoVadis assess-
efficiency benefits for every member and creates ments and audits help the company to promote sustain-
more transparency. ability across the board and worldwide.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 114 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENT
Training EU Taxonomy
Brenntag delivered a series of training sessions on the circular Art. 8 EU Taxonomy Regulation
economy in the reporting period. In rounds of discussions,
product management and sales in the EMEA region exchange By adopting the Action Plan on Financing Sustainable Growth,
information and ideas on the subject and seek further solu- the European Union took a decisive step to extend its commit-
tions together. ment to climate protection and sustainable business practice
on the financial markets. One tool in the action plan presented
Water in March 2018 is the EU Taxonomy Regulation (EU Taxonomy).
This uniform and legally binding classification system sets out
Brenntag uses water in many areas of its business operations, which economic activities are regarded as environmentally
for example to produce solutions, to clean pipe systems and sustainable and how they should be reported. The aim is to
to cool or heat chemicals and tank facilities. The total amount steer financial flows toward green investments. Investors
of water consumed here depends largely on the nature and should thus be able to decide whether they wish to contribute
scope of the products handled and services provided. Water to the EU’s goals through their investments. All companies that
consumption is therefore subject to fluctuations and differs are required to provide non-financial reporting according to
from site to site. Section 315b et seq. of the German Commercial Code (HGB)
have been obliged to disclose information on the implemen-
Brenntag also consumes water in operating the buildings and tation of the EU Taxonomy since inancial year 2021.
plants, for example in sanitary facilities or to clean surfaces,
road tankers and buildings. The used water is treated in Against this background, in the following section, Brenntag as
wastewater treatment facilities that purify it in line with a non-financial parent company presents the proportion of
statutory regulations before being returned to the system. its consolidated turnover, capital expenditure (Capex) and op-
Brenntag obtains water mainly from the public water supply erating expenditure (Opex) for the 2022 reporting period that
network. Some sites also use other types of water supply, such is associated with Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned
as rainwater or their own wells. Water consumption is not economic activities in relation to the first two environmental
currently recorded and controlled on a Group-wide basis. objectives (climate change mitigation and climate change
adaptation) pursuant to Art. 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation.
Brenntag aims to minimize water consumption and be
economical with water in all processes. The site in Zarate Organization of company activities
(Argentina), for example, captures rainwater, treats it and uses
it for industrial purposes and to extinguish fires at the site. A project team consisting of Corporate Accounting and
In addition, Brenntag works together with non-governmental Sustainability Brenntag Group assumed responsibility for
organizations such as Water for People with a view to imple- implementing the EU Taxonomy requirements at Brenntag.
menting further water-saving measures. The project team analyzed all Taxonomy-eligible economic
activities listed in the Climate Delegated Act with regard to
In the reporting period, Brenntag prepared a risk analysis in applicability to Brenntag. The review to determine whether
order to find out which sites could suffer water shortages as Taxonomy-eligible economic activities are also Taxonomy-
climate change increases. aligned is carried out and documented in the Group consoli-
dation system by the Accounting department of the respec-
tive Group company. To ensure a uniform approach in
reviewing alignment, the Reporting Guideline EU Taxonomy
2022 is applied at all Brenntag Group companies.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 122 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENT
Key performance indicators
Corresponding economic
Description of the Brenntag
activity in the EU Taxonomy
The key performance indicators (KPIs) required to be reported activity (Annex I to the Delegated Act)
under the EU Taxonomy include the turnover KPI, the Capex
KPI and the Opex KPI. For the 2022 reporting period, the KPIs
have to be disclosed in relation to Taxonomy-eligible eco- Motor vehicles
nomic activities and Taxonomy-aligned economic activities.
Purchase and leasing of 6.6. Freight transport services
heavy goods vehicles for by road
As a distributor, Brenntag generates external sales only in the freight transport
context of one activity: the sale of chemicals and ingredients.
Purchase, leasing, repair 3.6. Manufacture of other
The review revealed that this economic activity is not covered and maintenance of low-carbon technologies
by the Climate Delegated Act and is therefore not Taxonomy- industrial trucks
eligible since trade-related activities have not been identi- Purchase and leasing of 6.5. Transport by motorbikes,
fied by the EU as a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. passenger cars as com- passenger cars and light
pany vehicles commercial vehicles
In providing the service of transporting chemicals and ingre-
Renewable energy technologies
dients to customers, Brenntag does not generate external
sales on a standalone basis. As a result, this is not included
Purchase, leasing and 7.6 Installation, maintenance
in the turnover KPI or reported as a Taxonomy-eligible activity. maintenance of renewable and repair of renewable
The company therefore cannot present any Taxonomy- energy technologies for energy technologies
electricity and heat
eligible economic activities in relation to turnover. generation at Brenntag
sites, e.g. solar panels, heat
pumps and wind turbines
However, Brenntag reports capital and operating expenditure
related to the purchase of output from Taxonomy-eligible
Buildings
economic activities and individual measures to improve
energy efficiency listed, which are listed in the Climate
Construction of new 7.1. Construction of new
Delegated Act, as Taxonomy-eligible. In addition, Taxonomy- buildings buildings
eligible capital and operating expenditure is required to be
presented as Taxonomy-aligned if the technical screening Acquisition and leasing of 7.7. Acquisition and ownership
existing buildings of buildings
criteria and minimum requirements regarding human rights,
anti-corruption, taxation and fair competition are met pursu- Installation, maintenance 7.3. Installation, maintenance
ant to the EU Taxonomy Regulation and the Delegated Act. and repair of energy and repair of energy
efficiency equipment efficiency equipment
Taxonomy-eligibility Installation and mainte- 7.4. Installation, maintenance
nance of charging stations and repair of charging
for electric vehicles stations for electric vehicles
Brenntag discloses Capex and Opex related to the purchase in buildings (and parking
spaces attached
of output from Taxonomy-eligible and Taxonomy-aligned
to buildings)
economic activities and individual measures to improve
energy efficiency listed in Annex I of the Climate Delegated 3.16 Taxonomy-eligibility
Act (see table 3.16). In detail, on the basis of the overview of
investment requests, the budget planning lists and the con-
solidated reporting on Capex and Opex at Group level,
Brenntag has identified the following purchased outputs and
individual measures that correspond to Taxonomy-eligible
economic activities pursuant to the EU Taxonomy and there-
fore result in Taxonomy-eligible Capex/Opex:
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 123 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
ENVIRONMENT
Taxonomy-alignment Avoiding significant harm and compliance with mini-
mum requirements
The review for Taxonomy-alignment consists of multiple steps
that must be followed individually, with the results docu- For each economic activity that makes a substantial contri-
mented by the Group companies. In addition to the economic bution to at least one of the environmental objectives, it is
activity’s substantial contribution to one of the two climate- necessary to assess criteria on avoiding significant harm to
related environmental objectives, the criteria on avoiding one or more of the six environmental objectives as well as
significant harm to one or more of the six environmental compliance with the minimum requirements. According to the
objectives, referred to as the ‘do no significant harm’ (DNSH) Final Report on Minimum Safeguards issued by the Platform
criteria, and compliance with the minimum requirements on Sustainable Finance in October 2022, the latter relates to
regarding human rights, anti-corruption, taxation and fair human rights, anti-corruption, taxation and fair competition.
competition must also be checked. Brenntag considers all of
its Taxonomy-eligible economic activities as purchase of out- The assessment is carried out by the department responsible
put. Evidence in this regard is required from the supplier to at the respective Group company in cooperation with the sup-
demonstrate that they are the result of a Taxonomy-aligned plier of the products purchased or the services received.
activity. With regard to compliance with the minimum require-
ments, the review must also be carried out for Brenntag SE Not all criteria for Taxonomy-alignment fulfilled
without reference to a specific economic activity.
As regards the purchase of output, no supplier was able to
Substantial contribution provide information on and proof of fulfillment of all crite-
ria for Taxonomy-alignment, i.e. substantial contribution,
In the case of many of the economic activities relevant to avoidance of significant harm and compliance with the
Brenntag under the Climate Delegated Act, the performance minimum requirements. As a result, it was not possible to
of that activity already represents the substantial contribu- substantiate any Taxonomy-aligned Capex and Opex.
tion, obviating the need for any further reviews. The installa-
tion of solar panels or heat pumps can be given as an exam-
ple. In the case of other economic activities, including the
‘construction of new buildings’ or the ‘acquisition of existing
buildings’, a more detailed review has to be carried out in
accordance with the regulatory standard.
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 124 TO OUR REMUNERATION NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED FURTHER
SHAREHOLDERS REPORT REPORT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION
APPENDIX
GRI standard and description References Comments and online resources
2-20 Process to determine remuneration NfR, p. 108
Remuneration Report, p. 49
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Remuneration Report, p. 49
Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable development NfR, pp. 90 – 91, 95, 97
strategy
2-23 Policy commitments NfR, p. 102
2-24 Embedding policy commitments NfR, pp. 102 – 103
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts NfR, pp. 101 – 102
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising NfR, p. 101
concerns
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations NfR, pp. 101 – 102
2-28 Membership associations NfR, pp. 95, 107, 111, 112, 116 Memberships | Brenntag
Stakeholder engagement
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement NfR, p. 98
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Due to its large number of international locations
and the broad range of labor regulations applica-
ble to these locations, Brenntag does not record
this data in a consolidated Group-wide format.
Material Topics
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics NfR, pp. 93, 99
3-2 List of material topics NfR, p. 94
201: Economic Performance 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Management Report, p. 152
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Key financial figures at a
glance, p. 2, Consolidated
Financial Statements, p. 185,
Consolidated income
statement, p. 186,
Notes, p. 216
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Consolidated Financial
retirement plans Statements, p. 231
204: Procurement Practices 2016
3-3 Management of material topics NfR, pp. 112 – 114
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Local and regional purchasing plays a role in the
business model of a chemicals distributor, in
particular in the area of commodities.
205: Anti-corruption 2016
3-3 Management of material topics NfR, pp. 101 – 102
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption In internal audits, a total of 24 Brenntag compa-
nies were, among other things, reviewed in
relation to corruption risk in the reporting period.
205-2 Communication and training about NfR, pp. 101 – 102
anti-corruption policies and procedures
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Brenntag has not received any reports on
taken incidents for the reporting period.
206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Voluntary reporting as anti-competitive behavior
is not a material topic according to the 2022
materiality analysis.
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Management Report,
anti-trust, and monopoly practices p. 169, 178
Annual Report 2022 Brenntag SE 135