Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 10 Dear shareholders , The Supervisory Board comprehensively fulfilled all tasks incumbent upon it under applicable law , the Articles of Incorporation and By - Laws in fiscal 2022 . We closely supervised , carefu lly monitored and advised the Executive Board in the management of the company . We were directly involved in a timely manner in all decisions of fun- damental importance to the company . The Executive Board provided the Supervisory Board with regular , timely and comprehensive updates at its meetings as well as ver- bally and in writing on all issues of relevance to the company . In particular , these include the business performance , business strat- egy , planning , significant business transactions in the company an d the Continental Group , and the related risks and opportunities , as well as compliance issues . The members of the Supervisory Board were also available to the Executive Board for consultation outside the meetings . As chairman of the Supervisory Board , I h ad regular contact with the members of the Executive Board , in particular with its chairman , and discussed current company issues and develop- ments with them . Pursuant to a suggestion of the German Corpo- rate Governance Code , I also held discussions with inv estors in 2022 on topics specific to the Supervisory Board . Meetings of the Supervisory Board and the committees Meetings of the Supervisory Board took place both virtually and in person in fiscal 2022 . In total , the Supervisory Board convened for five ordinary meetings and one extraordinary meeting in 2022 , as well as for the strategy meeting . The September and December meetings and the strategy meeting were held in person , while the other meetings took place virtually . At its meetings , the Supervisory Board regularly conferred part of the time in the absence of the Executive Board . In addition to these meetings , the Supervisory Board passed two resolutions by written procedure , one of which was passed only by the shareholder representatives . The Chairman ’ s Committee held two meetings in the reporting year ( one virtually and one in person ) and passed two resolutions by written procedure . The Audit Committee met four times virtually in 2022 and passed one resolution by written procedure . The Nomi- nation Comm ittee passed one resolution by written procedure and also prepared the appointment of a new member to the Supervisory Board and the revision of its profile of skills and expertise . The Me- diation Committee in accordance with Section 27 ( 3 ) of the German Co-determination Act ( Mitbestimmungsgesetz – MitbestG ) was not required to meet in 2022 , and neither was the Committee for Re- lated Party Transactions ( RPT Committee ) . The special committee formed in connection with the Supervisory Board ’ s investigation into t he manipulation of emission limits by certain automotive manufacturers ( Special Emissions Committee ) met twice in the year under review . At its December meeting , the Supervisory Board additionally formed a further special committee to support the Superviso ry Board ’ s investigation into irregularities in the production of air conditioning lines and industrial hoses in two business areas of the ContiTech group sector ( Special Conti - Tech Committee ) . The Special ContiTech Committee did not hold any meetings in the year under review . There are no other committees . All committees report to the plenary session . The corporate governance statement pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code ( Handelsgesetz - buch – HGB ) starting on page 15 describes their responsibilities in more detail and names their members . The following overview provides information on the individual attend- ance of the Supervisory Board members at meetings of the Super- visory Board and its committees . Individual attendance of Supervisory Board members at in - person and virtual meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees in fiscal 2022 Attendance Number of meetings Percentage Supervisory Board plenary session Prof. Dr.-Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle ( chairman ) 7 / 7 100 Dorothea von Boxberg ( since April 29 , 2022 ) 4 / 5 80 Stefan E. Buchner 7 / 7 100 Dr. Gunter Dunkel 7 / 7 100 Satish Khatu 6 / 7 85.71 Isabel Corinna Knauf 7 / 7 100 Sabine Neuß 7 / 7 100 Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher 6 / 7 85.71 Klaus Rosenfeld 7 / 7 100 Georg F. W. Schaeffler 7 / 7 100 Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler -Thumann ( until April 29 , 2022 ) 2 / 2 100 Christiane Benner 7 / 7 100 Hasan Allak 6 / 7 85.71 Francesco Grioli 7 / 7 100 Michael Iglhaut 7 / 7 100 Carmen Löffler 7 / 7 100 Dirk Nordmann 7 / 7 100 Lorenz Pfau 7 / 7 100 Jörg Schönfelder 7 / 7 100 Stefan Scholz 7 / 7 100 Elke Volkmann 7 / 7 100 Chairman ’ s Committee Prof. Dr.-Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle ( chairman ) 2 / 2 100 Christiane Benner 2 / 2 100 Georg F. W. Schaeffler 2 / 2 100 Jörg Schönfelder 2 / 2 100 Corporate Governance Report of the Supervisory Board Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 11 Attendance Number of meetings Percentage Audit Committee Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher ( chairman ) 4 / 4 100 Francesco Grioli 3 / 4 75 Michael Iglhaut 4 / 4 100 Dirk Nordmann 4 / 4 100 Klaus Rosenfeld 4 / 4 100 Georg F. W. Schaeffler 4 / 4 100 Special Emissions Committee Prof. Dr.-Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle 2 / 2 100 Dirk Nordmann 2 / 2 100 Georg F. W. Schaeffler 1 / 2 50 Key topics dealt with by the Supervisory Board and the Chairman ’ s Committee At each ordinary meeting of the plenary session , the Executive Board informed the Supervisory Board in detail of the sales , results and employment development in the Continental Gr oup and indi- vidual group sectors as well as the financial situation of the com- pany . Where the actual course of business deviated from the de- fined plans and targets , the Executive Board provided detailed expla- nations . It discussed the reasons for these devi ations and the measures introduced in depth with the Supervisory Board . In addi- tion , the Executive Board regularly informed us about the Continen- tal Group ’ s main raw materials and sales markets and about Conti- nental AG ’ s share price performance . As part of this regular report- ing , the Executive Board also went into detail on the impact of the war in Ukraine on the company . In addition , the work of the Supervisory Board and its collaboration with the Executive Board in the year under review continued to be shaped by the transformation process in the automotive industry and its consequences for the company . Another focus of the Super- visory Board ’ s work was again on the Supervisory Board ’ s investiga- tion into the manipulation of emission limits in vehicles of spe cific automotive manufacturers , including monitoring of the correspond- ing investigative proceedings by public prosecutors . The Supervisory Board discussed this at each ordinary meeting . The Special Emis- sions Committee formed in connection with this matter also met twice in 2022 . Finally , the Supervisory Board addressed cybersecu- rity and the cyberattack on Continental in detail , as well as the irreg- ularities in the production of air conditioning lines and indus trial hoses in two business areas of the ContiTech group sector . At the meeting on March 17 , 2022 , we discussed and subse- quently approved the company ’ s annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for 2021 . We also approved both the decision by the Executive Board to hold the 2022 Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting virtually and the draft agenda for the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting , and resolved the proposed resolutions of the Supervisory Board to the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting . In addition , we discussed the acquisition of US conveyor belt manufacturer WCCO Belting , LLC , Wilmington , Delaware , USA , by the ContiTech group sector and the sale of a product line from the Automotive group sector . Measures from the Supervisory Board ’ s self-assessment in 2021 were also discussed at the meeting , and we resolved to implement the proposed improvement measures . These include , for example , establishing a further regular plenary meeting per fiscal year . We also passed a resolution on the approval in principle of the reassignment of 24.9 % of the shares in ContiTech AG , Hanover , from Continental Pension Trust e. V. , Hanover , to the Continental Group . Final approval on this reassignment was resolved by written procedure at the end of May on the recomme ndation of the Audit Committee . In addition , we resolved to update the declaration in accordance with Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act ( Aktien - gesetz – AktG ) on the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code , since the circums tances that required a change to the declaration in connection with the spin -off of Vitesco Tech- nologies Group AG in September 2021 no longer appl ied . At the Supervisory Board meeting on April 29 , 2022 , in addition to the ongoing business development , we also discussed in depth the Continental Group ’ s business activities in Russia , particularly with respect to the Tires group sector . We also received reports from the Executive Board on how the company is responding to supply shortages and price increases in the supply of energy . In implementing concrete measures following the Supervisory Board ’ s self -assessment , an additional ordinary meeting of the Supervisory Board was held for the first time on June 23 , 2022 . The transformation process in the automotive industry was an important topic of discussion at this meeting . In addition , the head of Compliance reported on the future organizational structure for compliance , and the Executive Board provided an update on the Continental Group ’ s current insurance sit uation . At the full -day strategy meeting held on September 21 , 2022 , the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board once again dis- cussed in detail the strategic objectives and strategic planning of the Continental Group , the Automotive group sector ( with a focus on the Autonomous Mobility business area ) and the Tires and Con ti- Tech group sectors , the Continental Group ’ s sustainability require- ments and the HR strategy . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 13 action . The Supervisory Board also resolved that a further special committee ( the Special ContiTech Committee ) would support this investigation . The Chairman ’ s Committee held two meetings in the year under review , in which it primarily prepared the personnel -related decisions of the plenary session and mad e recommendations for resolutions . At the first meeting on March 17 , 2022 , this included the recom- mendation on determined performance bonuses for fiscal 2021 , which the plenary session resolved at its following meeting . At the second meeting on December 14 , 2022 , the Chairman ’ s Commit- tee resolved proposals to the Chairman ’ s Committee relating to tar- gets set for the variable remuneration of the Executive Board and to the creation of a new Executive Board function for Integrity and Law . At the end of May , the Chairman ’ s Committee also approved the acquisition of US conveyor belt manufacturer WCCO Belting , LLC , Wilmington , Delaware , USA , by written procedure . This acquisi- tion had previously been discussed at the meeting of the plenary session on March 17 , 2022 . In September , the Chairman ’ s Commit- tee approved an investment project of the Automotive group sector by written procedure . Key topics dealt with by the Audit Committee The Audit Committee was also informed by the Executive Board in detail and on an ongoi ng basis about sales , results and employment development in the Continental Group and individual group sectors as well as the financial situation of the company . The Executive Board is assisted by the head of Accounting and the head of Group Controlling , w ho attend the meetings of the Audit Committee and can thereby provide information directly . In addition , the chairman of the Audit Committee is in regular contact with the chief financial officer and the auditor of the Continental Group outside of meetings and has access to senior employees entrusted with tasks relating to accounting , the internal control system , the risk management sys- tem , internal auditing and compliance . The chairman of the Audit Committee shares key information with the Audit Committee . As a focus of each of its quarterly meetings , the Audit Committee talks with the Executive Board about the accounting as at the end of the previous quarter and the outlook for the year as a whole as well as the quarterly statements and the half -year fina ncial report prior to their publication . Another focus of the Audit Committee ’ s work in the past fiscal year was dealing with the company ’ s internal control system and risk management system . At its meeting on March 2 , 2022 , the Audit Committee discussed the company ’ s annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements as well as the combined non -financial state- ment for 2021 with the Executive Board and the auditor , and rec- ommended their approval to the pl enary session of the Supervisory Board . The interim financial statements as at June 30 , 2022 , were reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs - gesellschaft , Hanover branch ( PwC ) , on behalf of the Audit Commit- tee . The work of the Group Compl iance and Group Internal Audit group functions and reporting on significant risks and incidents are also regular topics at each meeting . This includes in particular the matters described in more detail in the report on risks and opportu- nities and in the no tes to the consolidated financial statements . In addition to these recurring topics , at its meeting on May 4 , 2022 , the Audit Committee discussed the reassignment of 24.9 % of the shares in ContiTech AG , Hanover , from Continental Pension Trust e. V. , Hanov er , to the Continental Group , and was updated on the current status of cybersecurity . At the meeting on August 2 , 2022 , acquisition controlling was treated as a special topic of dis- cussion . The Audit Committee also addressed the review of the interim financial statements by auditor PwC at this meeting . In the absence of the Executive Board , the committee discussed with PwC the focal points to be determined in the audit by the Supervisory Board . At the meeting on November 9 , 2022 , the Audit Committee issued the mandate for the audit of the 2022 annual and consoli- dated financial statements , including the combined non -financial statement , the report on relations with affiliated companies and the remuneration report , to the auditor appointed by the Annual Share- holders ’ Meeting , PwC . In addition , the Audit Committee defined an approval framework for commissioning the auditor with permissi- ble non-audit services in accordance with the EU Audit Regulation . The Executive Board regularly informs the Audit Committee abo ut the use of this authorization . The Audit Committee discussed the current status of the cyberattack and initial consequences with the Executive Board and addressed the status of implementation of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act ( Lieferkettensor gfalts - pflichtengesetz ) . The perception of Continental on the capital mar- ket was also discussed . Finally , the Audit Committee extensively ad- dressed the irregularities in the production of air -conditioning lines and industrial hoses in two business areas of the ContiTech group sector and received reports on the current situation . Corporate governance At its meetings on March 17 , 2022 , and December 14 , 2022 , the Supervisory Board agreed to an updated declaration in accordance with Section 161 AktG on the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code . At its meeting on September 22 , 2022 , the Supervisory Board approved amendments to the By -Laws of the Supervisory Board and to the By -Laws of the Audit Committee , prompted as a result of the new version of the German Corporate Governance Code . At its meeting on December 14 , 2022 , the Super- visory Board decided on amendments to its profile of skills and ex- pertise , and passed a resolution on the corresponding skills matrix . The chairman of the S upervisory Board was notified of potential conflicts of interest by three Supervisory Board members in 2022 . In such cases , it is ensured that the Supervisory Board members in question do not participate in discussions of the Supervisory Board and its comm ittees on the topics that could constitute a conflict of interest and also do not receive any information in this regard . These are not significant and long -term conflicts of interest that would require the members to step down . In its opinion , the Super- visory Board also had an appropriate number of independent members , in particular on the shareholder side , as defined in the Code at all times in the period under review . Further information on this topic and on corporate governance in general is included in the corporate governance statement pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d HGB ( starting on page 15 ) . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 15 Responsible corporate governance is what governs the actions of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board . Good , responsible corporate governance geared toward sustainable , long-term value creation and in the interests of all stakeholder groups is what governs the actions of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Continental AG . The following corporate governance state- ment pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commer- cial Code ( Handelsgesetzbuch – HGB ) is representative of corporate governance at Continental and is a part of the management report . The remuneration report for fiscal 2022 on the remuneration of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board together with the auditor ’ s report and the valid remuneration system for the remu- neration of the Executive Board are available on Continental ’ s web- site under Company/Corporate Governance/Executive Board . The valid remuneration system for remuneration of the Supervisory Board is described in the remuneration repor t for fiscal 2022 and is available on Continental ’ s website under Company/Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board . Declaration pursuant to Section 161 of the G erman Stock Corporation Act ( Aktiengesetz – AktG ) and deviations from the German Corporate Governance Code ( Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex – DCGK ) In December 2022 , the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board issued the following annual declaration pursuant to Section 161 AktG : “ The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of Continental AG declare in accordance with Section 161 German Stock Corpora- tions Act ( AktG ) that the recommendations of the ‘ Government Commission on the German Cor porate Governance Code ’ in the version dated December 16 , 2019 ( published by the Federal Minis- try of Justice in the official section of the electronic Federal Gazette ( Bundesanzeiger ) on March 20 , 2020 ) , were complied with since February 18 , 2022 , with the exception as set out below , and fur- ther the recommendations of the ‘ Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code ’ in the version dated April 28 , 2022 ( published by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the electronic Federal Gazette ( Bundesanzeiger ) on June 27 , 2022 ) have been complied with and will continue to be complied with , with the exception set out below . Reference is made to the declaration of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of March 2022 as well as to previous decla- rations in accordance with Section 161 AktG and the deviations from the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code explained therein . According to recommendation C.2 of the German Corporate Gov- ernance Code , the Supervisory Board shall set an age limit for members of the Supervisory Board . The Supervisory Board does not set an age limit because it does not consider such a general criterion to be appropriate for evaluating the qualifications of a Supervisory Board member . Hanover , December 2022 Prof. Dr.-Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle Chairman of the Supervisory Board Nikolai Setzer Chairman of the Executive Board ” The declaration of compliance is published in the Company/Corpo- rate Governance section of Continental ’ s website . Earlier declara- tions pursuant to Section 161 AktG can also be found there . Out -of- date corporate governance statements can also be found there for a period of at least five years from the date they were issued . Key corporate governance practices The following documents are key foundations of our sustaina ble and responsible corporate governance : › OUR BASICS – Continental AG ’ s corporate guidelines . The vision , mission and values , desired behavior and self -image of the Conti- nental Group ; available on Continental ’ s website under Com- pany/Corporate Governance/Vision & Mission . › Sustainability ambition ; available on Continental ’ s website under Sustainability /Sustainabi lity Framework/Continental ’ s Sustainability Ambition . › Compliance with the binding Code of Conduct for all Continental employees . For more information , see Continental ’ s website under Sustainability /Sustainable Corporate Governance/ Organi- zation and Management . Corporate bodies In line with the law and the Articles of Incorporation , the company ’ s corporate bodies are the Executive Board , the Supervisory Board and the Shareholders ’ Meeting . As a German stock corporation , Continental AG has a dual management system characterized by a strict personnel d ivision between the Executive Board as the man- agement body and the Supervisory Board as the monitoring body . The cooperation between the Executive Board , Supervisory Board and Shareholders ’ Meeting is depicted on the next page . The Executive Board and its practices The Executive Board has sole responsibility for managing the com- pany in the interests of the company , free from instructions from third parties in accordance with the law , the Articles of Incorpora- tion and the Executive Board ’ s By -Laws , while taking into account the resolutions of the Shareholders ’ Meeting . All members of the Executive Board share responsibility for the management of the company jointly . Regardless of this principle of joint responsibility , each Executive Board member is individually responsible for the areas entrusted to them . The chairman of the Executive Board is responsible for the company ’ s overall management and business policy . He ensures management coordination and uniformity on the Executive Board and represents the company to the public . The Executive Board jointly develops the company ’ s strategy , agrees it with the Supervisory Board and ensures its implementation . Corporate Governance Statement Pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code ( HGB ) Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 16 The Executive Board had five members as at December 31 , 2022 , and as at the date of this statement . Information on areas of respon- sibility and resumes of the Executive Board members are available on Continental ’ s website under Company/Corporate Govern- ance/Executive Board . From May 1 , 2023 , the Executive Board will be expanded to six members following the Supervisory Board ’ s de- cision to create a new Executive Board function for Integrity and Law on December 14 , 2022 ( for details , see the report of the Super - visory Board , page 12 ) . The first time a person is appointed to the Executive Board , his or her term as a rule is three years only . As a rule , a member of the Executive Board is not appointed beyond the statutory retirement age . Only under exceptional circumstances will a member of the Execu- tive Board be reappoint ed earlier than one year prior to the end of their term of appointment with simultaneous annulment of their current appointment . More information on the members of the Executive Board and their memberships to be disclosed pursuant to Section 285 No . 10 HGB can be found on page 219 and on Continental ’ s website under Company/Corporate Governance/ Executive Board . The Executive Board has By -Laws that regulate in particular the allocation of duties among the Executive Board members , key matters pertaining to the company and its subsidiaries that require a decision to be made by the Executive Board , the duties of th e Executive Board chairman , and the process in which the Executive Board passes resolutions . The Executive Board By -Laws are availa- ble on Continental ’ s website under Company/Corporate Govern- ance/Executive Board . The Supervisory Board By -Laws on the basis of the Articles of Incorporation require the consent of the Super- visory Board for significant actions taken by management . The Executive Board has established separate boards for the Auto- motive , Tires and ContiTech group sectors . This measure supports the decentralization of responsibility that the global o rganization of the company seeks to achieve , and relieves the burden on the Continental Group Executive Board . In addition to establishing these boards , the Executive Board has delegated to them decision -mak- ing powers for certain matters that affect only the relevant group sectors . The boards for the three group sectors each comprise the Executive Board member responsible for the group sector in question as their chairman , the heads of the relevant business areas within the group sector , as well as furthe r members from among the central functions of the relevant group sectors . The Supervisory Board and its practices The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Executive Board and collaborates with the Executive Board to develop a long - term succession plan . The Supervisory Board discusses this at least once a year without the Executive Board . In order to become ac- quainted with potential successors , the Supervisory Board , in con- sultation with the Executive Board , offers them the opportunity to deliver presentations to the Supervisory Board . The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Executive Board in managing the company . This includes , in particular , issues relating to the company ’ s strategy , planning , business development , risk sit- uation , risk management , compliance and sustainability . The Super- visory Board is directly involved in decisions of material importance Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 17 to the company . As specified by law , the Articles of Incorporation or the Supervisory Board By -Laws , certain corporate mana gement matters require the approval of the Supervisory Board . The chair- man of the Supervisory Board coordinates its work and represents it vis-à-vis third parties . Within reasonable limits , he is prepared to talk to investors about issues specific to the S upervisory Board . He maintains regular contact between meetings with the Executive Board , and in particular with its chairman , to discuss issues relating in particular to the company ’ s strategy , business development , risk situation , risk management and compliance . Composition of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board comprises 20 members in accordance with the German Co -determination Act ( Mitbestimmungsgesetz – MitbestG ) and the company ’ s Articles of Incorporation . Half the members o f the Supervisory Board are elected individually by the shareholders in the Shareholders ’ Meeting ( shareholder representa- tives ) , while the other half are elected by the employees of Conti- nental AG and its German subsidiaries ( employee representatives ) . Both the shareholder representatives and the employee represent- atives have an equal duty to act in the interests of the company . The Supervisory Board ’ s chairman must be a shareholder repre- sentative . He has the casting vote in the event of a tie . The current Supervisory Board was constituted on April 26 , 2019 . The term of office of the Supervisory Board members lasts until the end of the 2024 Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting . The chairman of the Supervisory Board is Prof. Dr. -Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle who , in ac- cordance with the German Corporate Governance Code , is inde- pendent of the company and its Executive Board . The Supervisory Board does not include any members who previously belonged to the Executive Board of Continental AG , who exercise an executive function or advisory role at a major competitor of Continental , or who have a personal relationship with such a competitor . The company has set up an informational program that provides newly elected members of the Supervisory Board with a thorough overview of the c ompany ’ s products and technologies as well as finances , controlling and corporate governance at Continental . The Supervisory Board has drawn up its own By -Laws that supple- ment the law and the Articles of Incorporation with more detailed provisions , including provisions on Supervisory Board meetings , the duty of confidentiality , the handling of conflicts of interest and the Executive Board ’ s reporting obligations , and a list of transac- tions and measures that require the approval of the Supervisory Board . The Supervisory Board By -Laws are available on Continen- tal ’ s website under Company/Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board . The Supervisory Board also consults o n a regular basis in the absence of the Executive Board . Before each regular meeting of the Supervisory Board , the representatives of the shareholders and of the employees each meet separately with members of the Exec- utive Board to discuss the upcoming mee ting . The Supervisory Board regularly reviews how effectively it and its committees have fulfilled their responsibilities . It recently carried out such a review in 2021 with the help of an external consultant . This confirmed the Supervisory Board ’ s efficie nt and professional approach to its work in the past years . The Supervisory Board has adopted the recommendations that resulted from the 2021 self - assessment and , among other things , resolved to hold an addi- tional regular meeting each fiscal year and to co ordinate more closely with the Executive Board , including outside of meetings . Profile of skills and expertise for the Supervisory Board In accordance with recommendation C.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code , the Supervisory Board has prepared a profile of skills and expertise and specified targets for its composition . The Supervisory Board as a whole should possess the skills and expertise described in more detail below . It is not expected that all Supervisory Board members possess all skills an d expertise . Instead , each area of expertise must be covered by at least one Supervisory Board member . The Supervisory Board assumes that all Supervisory Board members possess the knowledge and skills required for the proper performance of their duties a nd the charac- teristics necessary for successful Supervisory Board work . In partic- ular , these include integrity , commitment , capacity for discussion and teamwork , sufficient availability and discretion . › Internationality : Due to Continental AG ’ s global activities , its Supervisory Board requires international professional or business experience . This means professional training or operational activ- ity abroad . International professional and business experience with regard to Asian markets is a lso desirable . › Industry experience : The Supervisory Board should have professional experience in the automotive industry or other in- dustries in which the company operates . In particular , the Super- visory Board wants to increase its expertise in business a reas that are important to the company ’ s strategy . Therefore , professional knowledge or experience of information technology , software , telecommunications , mobility services , digital business models or related areas should be available . › Financial expert ise : The Supervisory Board should possess finan- cial knowledge and experience pursuant to Section 100 ( 5 ) AktG as well as recommendation D.3 of the German Corporate Govern- ance Code , i.e . in the areas of accounting , internal control and risk management syste ms , and the audit of financial statements . › Corporate governance and board experience : Members of the Supervisory Board should have experience as a member of the supervisory board or executive board of a German listed com- pany or as a member of such a body o f a foreign listed company . › Sustainability expertise : The Supervisory Board should have in - depth knowledge and experience in the sustainability issues that are relevant to the company . › Organizational and human resources development : The Supervisory Board should have expertise in the area of HR strategy , HR management and labor relations , and in particular knowledge and practical experience in the transformation of companies , including the impact on changing skills requirements for staff . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 18 The Supervisory B oard has specified the following targets for its composition : › The number of members of the Supervisory Board who have the required international experience should at a minimum remain con- stant . Eleven members currently have international experience . › An appropriate number of members with industry experience should be maintained . This applies to 16 of the members . › The Supervisory Board should have an appropriate number of members on the shareholder side whom it deems to be independ- ent in accordance with the G erman Corporate Governance Code . Taking into account the ownership structure , a Supervisory Board member is therefore considered independent if they are independ- ent of the company and its Executive Board , and also independ- ent of a controlling shareholder . The independence of shareholder representatives was assessed in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code by shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board . As part of the assessment of independence from the Executive Board and the company , it was taken into ac- count that four shareholder representatives will have been mem- bers of the Supervisory Board for more than 12 years in 2023 . It was also taken i nto consideration in the assessment of independ- ence from any controlling shareholder that two Supervisory Board members are linked to the controlling shareholder , the IHO Group , Herzogenaurach , Germany . As determined in the assess- ment by the shareholder re presentatives on the Supervisory Board , the Supervisory Board still has an appropriate number of members on the shareholder side who are independent in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code . This assessment is based on the following consid erations : › More than half of the shareholder representatives should be independent of Continental AG and its Executive Board . In the assessment of the independence of the four shareholder repre- sentatives that have been on the Supervisory Board for more than 12 years , given the former and ongoing administration of the members in question , the shareholder representatives over- all see no grounds to accept changing the existing assessment of independence . The shareholder representatives currently on the Supervisory Board are therefore all , without exception , inde- pendent of Continental AG and its Executive Board . › At least five shareholder representatives should be independent of the controlling shareholder , the IHO Group , headquartered in Herzogenaurach , Germany . The shareholder representatives in- dependent of the controlling shareholder are : › Prof. Dr.-Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle › Dorothea von Boxberg ( as of April 29 , 2022 ) › Stefan E. Buchner › Dr. Gunter Dunkel › Satish Khatu › Isabel Corinna Knauf › Sabine Neuß › Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher › In its nominations for election to the Supervisory Board , the Super- visory Board as a rule does not nominate candidates who have al- ready held this position for three full terms of office at the time of the election . › The Supervisory Board has not stipulated an age limit as recom- mended in recommendation C.2 of the German Corporate Gov- ernance Code . It does not consider such a general criterion to be suitable for evaluating the qualifications of a candidate ’ s nomina- tion to the Supervisory Boar d. According to Section 96 ( 2 ) AktG , the Supervisory Board of Conti- nental AG is also subject to the requirement that at least 30 % of its members be women and at least 30 % be men . The company re- ports on this on page 22 , in accordance with Section 289f ( 2 ) Nos . 4 to 6 HGB . In its nominations of candidates for election to the Supervisory Board , the Supervisory Board takes into account the requirements of the profile of skills and expertise for the board as a whole as well as the aforementioned targets . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report To O ur Sharehold ers Corporate Governance 20 Committees of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board currently has five committees with decision - making powers : the Chairman ’ s Committee , the Audit Committee , the Nomination Committee , the committee formed in accordance with Section 27 ( 3 ) MitbestG ( the Mediation Committee ) and the committe e for the approval of company transactions with related persons ( Committee for Related Party Transactions ) ( Section 107 ( 3 ) Sentence 4 ; Section 111b ( 1 ) AktG ) . Key responsibilities of the Chairman ’ s Committee are preparing the appointment of Executive Board members and concluding , ter- minating and amending their employment contracts and other agreements with them . However , the plenum of the Supervisory Board alone is responsible for establishing the total remun eration of the Executive Board members . Another key responsibility of the Chairman ’ s Committee is deciding on the approval of certain trans- actions and measures by the company as specified in the Super- visory Board By -Laws . The Supervisory Board has conferre d some of these participation rights on the Chairman ’ s Committee , each member of which may however , in individual cases , demand that a matter again be submitted to the plenary session for decision . The members of the Chairman ’ s Committee are Prof. Dr. -Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle ( chairman ) ; his vice chairperson , Christiane Benner ; Georg F. W. Schaeffler ; and Jörg Schönfelder . The Audit Committee primarily deals with the audit of the ac- counts , the monitoring of the accounting process and the effective- ness of the i nternal control system , the risk management system and the internal audit system , the audit of the financial statements ( including sustainability reporting and examination thereof ) and compliance . In particular , the committee deals with the preliminary examination of Continental AG ’ s annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements , and makes its recommenda- tion to the plenary session of the Supervisory Board , which then passes resolutions pursuant to Section 171 AktG . Furthermore , the committee discusses the company ’ s draft interim financial reports . It is also responsible for ensuring the necessary independence of the auditor and deals with additional services performed by the auditor . The committee engages the auditor , determines the focus of the report as necessary , negotiates the fee and regularly reviews the quality of the audit . The chairman of the Audit Committee regu- larly consults with the auditor on the progress of the audit and re- ports on this to the committee . The committee al so regularly con- sults with the auditor without the Executive Board . It also gives its recommendation for the Supervisory Board ’ s proposal to the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting for the election of the auditor . The Audit Committee is also responsible for the preliminary audit of non - financial reporting and for the engagement of an auditor for its re- view , if any . The chairman of the Audit Committee is Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher . He is independent in all respects as defined in the German Corporate Governance Co de . As an auditor with many years of professional experience in management positions , he has in-depth knowledge and experience in auditing . Another commit- tee member , Klaus Rosenfeld , is also a financial expert , and as chief financial officer in a number of companies has in -depth knowledge and experience in accounting and internal control and risk man- agement systems . The other members are Francesco Grioli , Michael Iglhaut , Dirk Nordmann and Georg F. W. Schaeffler . Neither a former Executive Board member nor the chairman of the Supervisory Board may act as chairman of the Audit Committee . The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating suita- ble candidates for the Supervisory Board to propose to the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting for election . In addition , the committee must propose targets for the Supervisory Board ’ s composition and profile of skills and expertise and review both regularly . The Nomination Committee consists entirely of shareholder representatives , specifi- cally the two members of the Chairm an ’ s Committee , Prof. Dr. -Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle ( chairman ) and Georg F. W. Schaeffler ; the chairman of the Audit Committee , Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher ; and Isabel Corinna Knauf . In accordance with Section 31 ( 3 ) Sentence 1 MitbestG , the Media- tion Committee becomes active only if the first round of voting on a proposal to appoint a member of the Executive Board or to re- move a member by consent does not achieve the legally required two-thirds majority . This committee must then attempt mediation before a new vote is taken . The members of the Chairman ’ s Com- mittee are also the members of the Mediation Committee . The Committee for Related Party Transactions ( RPT Commit- tee ) deals with transactions between Continental AG and a related person , where these t ransactions require the prior consent of Con- tinental AG ’ s Supervisory Board in accordance with Sections 111a and 111b AktG . Transactions in this case require the prior consent of the Supervisory Board . In addition to the chairman of the Super- visory Board , Prof. Dr.-Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle , and the chairman of the Audit Committee , Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher , the Committee for Related Party Transactions includes two further members elected by the Supervisory Board from among the employee representatives where necessary . The Special Emissions Committee and the Special ContiT ech Committee support the Supervisory Board ’ s investigations into the manipulation of emission limits by certain automotive manufactur- ers and irregularities in the production of air condition ing lines and industrial hoses in two business areas of the ContiTech group sec- tor , respectively . In particular , the special committees are available to external law firms as a point of contact , source of information and recipient of reports , regularly rep ort to the plenary session on the investigations and prepare any resolutions required for the ple- nary session or committees . The members of the Special Emissions Committee are Prof. Dr. -Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle , Georg F. W. Schaeffler and Dirk Nordmann . The m embers of the Special ContiTech Com- mittee are Prof. Dr. -Ing . Wolfgang Reitzle , Prof. Dr. Rolf Nonnenmacher and Dirk Nordmann . Finally , the Supervisory Board has formed a group of experts that deals with sustainability issues relevant to Continental . The gr oup of experts comprises two shareholder representatives and two employee representatives . More information on the members of the Supervisory Board and its committees can be found on pages 220 and 221 . Current resumes , which are updated annually , are available on Continental ’ s website under Company/Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board They also contain information on how long each member has held their position on the Supervisory Board . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report Management Report Corporate Profile 38 Continental sustainability reporting topic areas Continental sustainability ambition topic areas Material reporting topic areas for the non -financial statement in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c HGB in conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB Allocation of material reporting topic areas to non -financial aspects in accordance with Section 289c ( 2 ) HGB Four focus areas of sustainability1 Carbon neutrality X Environmental matters Emission -free mobility and industries X Environmental matters Circular economy X Environmental matters Responsible value chain X Environmental matters , employee matters , social matters , respect for human rights Eight sustainability essentials2 Good working conditions X Employee matters , respect for human rights Green and safe factories X Environmental matters , employee matters , respect for human rights Innovations and digitalization – Benchmark in quality X Environmental matters , social matters Safe mobility – Long-term value creation – Sustainable management practice X Anti-corruption and bribery matters , employee matters Corporate citizenship – 1 For our four focus areas , we are committed to achieving our strong , visionary ambitions by 2050 at the latest , together wit h our partners along the value chain . 2 Our eight sustainability essentials are at the core of our sustainability management . Management , organization and responsibilities Within the Executive Board , the Executive Board member for Group Human Relations ( director of Labor Relations ) and Group Sustaina- bility is responsible for sustainability . Sustainabil ity management within the Continental Group is regulated by a dedicated internal sustainability policy . The Group Sustainability group function is further supplemented by sustainability functions in the group sectors as well as coordina- tors in several business areas and countries . The key sustainability functions were expanded and strengthened in 2022 . The Group Sustainability Steering Committee is responsible for as- sessing interdepartmental issues , weighing up risks and opportuni- ties and discus sing relevant Executive Board decisions in advance . In fiscal 2022 , it consisted of the entire Executive Board as well as the heads of the sustainability functions at corporate level and group sector level as well as the heads of other relevant group funct ions . The committee is chaired by the Executive Board member for Group Human Relations ( director of Labor Relations ) and Group Sustaina- bility and managed by the head of the Group Sustainability group function . Some of the group sectors have their own inter depart- mental sustainability committees , which are coordinated by the relevant sustainability functions . The sustainability performance indicators are consolidated in the Continental Group ’ s sustainability scorecard , which is approved annually by the Grou p Sustainability Steering Committee on behalf of the Executive Board . The scorecard is based on defined quality criteria for the indicators , is continuously developed further and establishes the formal basis for integrating sustainability into other corporate processes . The topic of sustainability is also an integral part of the Continental Group ’ s strategy development . Significant investments must be re- viewed and assessed as to their contribution to sustainability as a standard part of the approval process . For the Autom otive , Tires and ContiTech group sectors , detailed roadmaps for the implementation of sustainability ambitions in the relevant topic areas are under de- velopment . Remuneration The Executive Board and managers are measured against the achievement of sustain ability goals . Long -term remuneration com- ponents ( long -term incentive – LTI ) are thus linked to sustainability aspects . The LTI plans are updated on an annual basis . For more information , see the remuneration report on our website under Company/Executi ve Board . Cultural change In order to support cultural change in the organization , we stepped up internal communication with respect to sustainability in fiscal 2022 , held numerous events and further integrated the topic into key internal event formats for managers . These events include the annual Global Sustainability Conference , which is attended by Con- tinental employees from all over the world . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report Management Report Corporate Profile 42 Results of the concept The waste for recovery quota was at 85 % in fiscal 2022 ( PY : 81 % ) . This was mainly due to the successful implementation of local pro- jects as well as to market conditions , which allowed for increased waste rec overy . Circular economy performance indicator 20222 20212 Waste for recovery quota in % 1 85 81 1 Definition : proportion of waste that has been sent for material recycling , thermal recovery or any other form of recycling or reuse . 2 Contains a small amount of imputed data for parts of the Continental Group that did not report data directly . For more information on the circular economy , see the integrated sustainability report on our website at www.continental -sustainability.com . Responsible value chain Our ambition As set out in our sustainability ambition , we strive for 100 % respon- sible sourcing and business partnerships by 2050 at the latest , to- gether with our partners along the value chain . Our understanding of a responsible value chain thus refers to our supply chain and customer relationships and to our own locations . Of central importance for our ambition are the requirements and speed of transformation of our customers , industries and markets as well as the resulting transformation opportunities and risks . Concept In the reporting year , a comprehensive management system for ensuring due diligence within a responsible value chain was devel- oped and launched . The global implementation of the system in stages is designed to achieve continuous improvement and to re- spect both human and environmental rights along the value chain . This covers both Continental ’ s own operations and in particular those of direct suppliers . For this purpose , responsibilities , rules and processes are clearly defined , including control mechanisms . The management system is guided by specific commitments in the areas of labor standards , occupational health and safety , the environment , safety practices and land rights . The aim of the system is to ensure the corresponding laws are observed and recognized , in particular the requirements under the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act ( Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz ) . It is also aimed at system- atically applying due diligence procedures , reducing risks , support- ing the implementation of customer requirements and supplement- ing the existing internal control system . Within the system , our Business Partner Code of Conduct defines the fundamental requirements , among others for our suppliers , and for their suppliers , including with regard to human rights , working conditions , environmental protection , conflict minerals an d anti- corruption . The Code of Conduct is updated regularly to reflect changes or adjustments to legislation . For suppliers of natural rub- ber , our sourcing policy for sustainable natural rubber additionally applies . Violations of our rules can be reported via the Integrity Hot- line , which is available around the clock and worldwide . When Continental is notified about violations of our Business Part- ner Code of Conduct , these will be checked , and , if necessary , fur- ther appropriate measures will be initiated n ecessary . Where busi- ness partners are proven to have violated our Business Partner Code of Conduct , Continental requests and monitors remedial measures and reserves the right to terminate the business relation- ship as a last resort . Sustainability aspects a re also taken into consideration at various other points in supplier management . For example , selected suppli- ers are evaluated based on various criteria using self-assessment questionnaires , which we collect via the generally accepted sustain- ability platfo rms for our industries , such as EcoVadis and NQC . These questionnaires are reviewed annually at the corporate level . Furthermore , selective local audits or other audit activities – such as in relation to the existence of management systems – are also carried out . We also continue to develop our approach for the responsible value chain in dialog with external stakeholders and support the development of industry -wide standards , for example through our participation in industry dialog with the German governmen t on human rights in the automotive industry . Here , we have worked in particular to cultivate a shared understanding of industry risks and due diligence requirements . We are also involved in initiatives and associations such as econsense , the Responsible B usiness Alliance ( RBA ) and the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber ( GPSNR ) . Responsible sourcing is the responsibility of the relevant purchas- ing organizations , which are established at Continental by group sector , product group and country , for example . A corporate pur- chasing network regularly deals with responsible sourcing topi cs as well . The Group Quality group function coordinates the manage- ment of conflict minerals , including the corresponding reporting processes . Results of the concept To further increase transparency and sustainability in Continental ’ s natural rubber suppl y chain , the joint venture “ Rubberway , ” which was founded in 2019 , was rolled out further for the digital risk analy- sis of the upstream supply chain . The joint project with the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit ( GIZ ) in the Indone- sian province of West Kalimantan , which has been in place since 2018 , was also further expanded . The aim of the project is to jointly drive forward the implementation of a digital system for the tracea- bility of natural rubber from the project reg ion . By optimizing the supply chain and offering training in the sustainable cultivation of natural rubber , smallholders are supported in boosting the quantity , quality and yield of their produce and in this way improving their income . In addition , a culti vation strategy designed around sustain- ability prevents clearing and deforestation , thereby conserving val- uable resources . As part of a development project with Security Matters ( SMX ) , Continental is working on testing a tamper -proof means of verification of the geographical origin of natural rubber using marker technologies . In fiscal 2022 , field testing was success- fully completed , and the marker substance could be verified beyond doubt throughout the entire tire production process . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report Management Report Corporate Profile 43 As at December 31 , 2022 , 1,009 valid supplier self -assessment questionnaires were available via the two sustainability platforms EcoVadis and NQC ( PY : 631 ) . This corresponds to a completion rate of 63 % of suppliers selected for this process ( PY : 53 % ) . The increase in the number of available valid supplier self -assessment question- naires and the higher completion rate are due to the onboarding of ContiTech suppliers in EcoVadis and the follow -up activities with suppliers to update and renew their self -assessment questionnaires . Responsible value chain performance indicator 2022 2021 Number of available valid supplier self-assessment questionnaires ( as at December 31 ) 1 1,009 631 1 Based on the self -assessment questionnaires via the sustainability platforms EcoVadis and NQC completed by suppliers selected for this process . We present further performance indicators for the implementation of a responsible value chain with regard to our own locations in the sections on good working conditions as well as green and safe fac- tories in this combined non -financial statement . For more information on the responsible value chain , see the inte- grated sustainability report on our website at www.continental -sustainability.com . Good working conditions Our ambition As set out in our sustainability ambition , we provide inspiring , healthy and fair working conditions . Concept The Continental Group ’ s Code of Conduct sets out the foundation for good working conditions as the basis of our global collabora- tion , including respect for human rights and fair working condi- tions . Employees receive training on compliance with the Code of Conduct . The management system being rolled out for a responsi- ble value chain also includes the company ’ s own activities ( see re- sponsible value chain ) . Our HR strategy is geared toward meeting staffing requirements in terms of both quantity and quality . The two HR strategy initiatives “ Industrialize Best Fit ” and “ Enable Transformation ” are therefore fo- cused on efficiently and effectively bringing together the right peo- ple and positions and shaping the digital and technological transfor- mation and cultural shift toward new forms of collaboration . Work- force planning , the search for , diagnostic selection and development of talent ( in particular in the areas of software and IT ) , the promotion of employee diversity and lifelong learning , the further development of the management culture and the flexibilization of working hou rs are therefore essential action fields of strategic HR work . We are tackling the impact of our Transformation 2019 –2029 structural program , which among other things is associated with the transformation in mobility and is likely to change up to 23,000 jobs worldwide , with targeted training measures for the employees affected . New career prospects and employment opportunities are to be opened up on the internal as well as the external employ- ment markets . Those responsible for HR are the HR functions at Continental Group , group sector , business area and country level , which work together in a global network . A special network of country coordi- nators for labor relations is also part of this organization . We measure the success of HR work against the OUR BA SICS Live Sustainable Engagement index , which is calculated on the basis of the annual employee survey . The index measures employee agree- ment on topics such as whether they personally back the company values and whether they are proud to work for Continent al . Other performance indicators we consult are the sickness rate and the unforced fluctuation rate . The sickness rate measures sickness -re- lated absence relative to contractual work time , and the unforced fluctuation rate measures the voluntary departure o f employees from the company relative to the average number of employees . The OUR BASICS Live Sustainable Engagement index has also been part of the LTI plans for the members of the Executive Board and managers since fiscal 2020 . The sickness rate is also part of this , although only for the plans launched in fiscal 2020 . For more information , see the remuneration report on our website under Company/Corporate Governance/Executive Board . Results of the concept In fiscal 2022 , the Sustainable Engagement in dex was 80 % ( PY : 80 % ) and therefore on par with the previous year . The sickness rate was unchanged at 3.7 % ( PY : 3.7 % ) . For the unforced fluctuation rate , we recorded a slight increase to 7.8 % ( PY : 7.0 % ) . Information about personnel expenses in fiscal 20 22 ( i.e . wages and salaries , social security contributions and pension and post - employment benefit costs ) can be found in Note 9 of the notes to the consolidated statement of income in this annual report . Em- ployee benefits such as pensions , post -employmen t benefits and long-term bonus payments are broken down in Note 29 of the notes to the consolidated statement of financial position . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report Management Report Corporate Profile 45 Benchmark in quality Our ambition As set out in our sustainability ambition , we are recognized by our customers and society as being a benchmark in quality by ensur- ing safe and sustainable products . Concept The decisi ve factor in becoming a benchmark in quality is a quality - oriented company culture . Our quality policy sets out guidelines for product and process quality at Continental . Product recalls , product liability claims and proceedings as a result of quality defe cts repre- sent a business risk that we want to avoid due to the resulting losses of sales , costs , and loss of customer and market acceptance . For more information , see the report on risks and opportunities in this annual report . Local management systems dr ive forward the implementation of these guidelines . The concrete organizational and technical require- ments can be found in the relevant quality management manuals for the group sectors . The extent of these certifications is assessed on an annual basis as t o how many employees they cover with re- spect to quality management systems . The number of new field quality events is used as an effectiveness indicator for our quality management . A field quality event is a risk -minimizing measure for a product manufactur ed and/or sold by Continental on the basis of a safety-related defect and/or non -compliance with regulations that was initiated by Continental , a customer and/or an authority . The Group Quality group function as well as the quality functions at various lev els in the Continental Group , which work together in a global network , are responsible for the strategic , corporate -wide quality management process . Results of the concept As at December 31 , 2022 , certified quality management systems covered 83 % of our em ployees throughout the Continental Group ( PY : 84 % ) . Thirty new field quality events were identified in fiscal 2022 ( PY : 36 ) . Benchmark in quality performance indicators 2022 2021 Quality management system certification ( ISO 9001 or similar ) 1 Employee coverage ( as at December 31 ) in % 83 84 New field quality events ( as at December 31 ) 2 30 36 1 Valid certification and concluded recertification processes were counted , as well as ongoing recertification processes , if the achievement of recertification was considered highly probable . 2 Definition : a field quality event is a risk -minimizing measure for a product manufactured and/or sold by Continental based on a safety -related defect and/or non-compliance with regulations th at was initiated by Continental , a customer and/or an authority . Information about the scope of warranty and product liability claims in fiscal 2022 can be also found in Note 38 of the other disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statement s. For more information on benchmark in quality , see the integrated sustainability report on our website at www.continental -sustainability.com . Sustainable management practice Our ambition As set out in our sustainability ambition , we implement effective management processes , fair business practices and responsible cor- porate governance with a balanced view of different perspectives . Concept Group Compliance , which is divided into a central team and regional functions , is responsible for preventing violations in the areas of cor- ruption , antitrust law , money laundering and data protection . This structure is supplemented by compliance coordinators in the coun- tries and at the locations . The fund amental principles of compli- ance management are set out in the Continental Group ’ s compli- ance manual . Continental strives for a holistic compliance management system based on a comprehensive analysis of potential compliance risks , followed by the implemen tation of appropriate policies and proce- dures , training , consulting , monitoring and controls that lead to on- going lessons learned and system improvements . The Integrity Hotline and an ombudsman ’ s office are on hand to offer support in the detection of vio lations . As a further cornerstone for sustainable management practice , we are committed to promoting employee diversity , which we under- stand as internationality , a balanced gender ratio , and a range of ex- periences and age categories . We have set ourselves the corporate target of increasing the share of female executives and senior exec- utives to 25 % by 2025 and to up to 30 % by 2030 . We intend to achieve this in particular by promoting cultural change in the organization through the expansion of women ’ s networks and the holding of diversity workshops and specific events . Gender diversity – the share of female executives and senior executives – has also been part of the LTI plans for the mem- bers of the Executive Board and global managers since fiscal 2020 . For more information , see the remuneration report on our website under Company/Corporate Governance/Executive Board . For more information on sustainable management practice and our diversity concept , see the Corporate Governance section of this annual report . For more information on compliance , see the “ Struc- ture of the internal control system ” section in the report on risks and opportunities . Continental AG 2022 Annual Report Management Report Report on Risks and Opportunities 88 The overall situation is analyzed and managed corporate -wide using the risk and opportunity management system . The management of Continental is geared toward sustainably in- creasing the value of each individual operating unit . We evaluate risks and opportunities contin ually and responsibly to achieve our goal of adding value . We define risk as the possibility of internal or external events occur- ring that can have a negative influence on the attainment of our strategic and operational targets . As a global corporation , C ontinen- tal is exposed to a number of different risks , in particular due to the transformation in the mobility industry , that could impair business and , in extreme cases , threaten the company ’ s existence . At the same time , this transformation also presents opportunities that we intend to consistently seize , as described in the Strategy of the Continental Group section . We accept manageable risks if the re- sulting opportunities are expected to result in sustainable growth in value . We consider growth in value in terms of the Continental Value Contribution ( CVC ) system described in the Corporate Man- agement section . Continental ’ s Internal Control System The governance systems at Continental comprise the internal con- trol system , the risk management system and – as part of the risk management system – the compliance management system . The risk management system in turn also includes the early risk identifi- cation system in accordance with Section 91 ( 2 ) of the German Stock Corporation Act ( Aktiengesetz – AktG ) . The Executive Board is responsible for the governance systems , which include all subsidiaries . The Supervisory Board and its Audit Committee monitor the effectiveness of these systems . Structure of the internal control system In order to operate successfully as a company in a complex business environment and to ensure the effectiveness , efficiency and propriety of all processes and compliance with the relevant legal and sub -legis- lative regulations , Continental has established an internal control sys- tem that encompasses all relevant business processes . Key elements of the corporate -wide internal control system are the clear allocation of responsibilities and system -inherent controls in the respective process flows . The two -person rule and separation of functions are fundamental principles of this organization . Continen- tal ’ s management also issues guidelines to ensure that all business processes are conducted in an economical , orderly and legally compliant manner . Based on these fundamental principles and the globally applicable guidelines , the internal control system at Continental follows the Three Lines Model . In the first line , system-inherent controls are configured in the company ’ s IT systems to support the orderly and economical exe- cution of all process flow transactions in accordance with the cor- porate-wide guidelines . At the same time , these transactional con- trols help to identify risks and deviations that require separate con- sideration . As the controls and process flows established in the first line apply to Continental ’ s operating business , they are generally put in place at the level of our operating units , such as our subsidi- aries , business areas and group sectors . In the second line of our internal control system , guidelines for process flows are developed , implemented and updated and com- pliance with controls and guidelines is monitored . Responsibility for this lies primarily with the group functions , in addition to the busi- ness areas and group sectors . The responsibilities include , for ex- ample , the risk management system and the compliance manage- ment system . In order to perform this superv isory and monitoring function , an integrated reporting system has been established that includes , for example , the financial reporting internal control sys- tem ( Financial Reporting ICS ) , the general risk management sys- tem , the compliance risk management sys tem and the tax compli- ance management system . The supervisory and monitoring func- tion is performed on the basis of regular reports and supplemented as needed with effectiveness tests as part of self -audits and regular internal and external reviews . The com pliance management system plays an important role within the second line of defense by helping to prevent , detect and respond to compliance violations . The Group Compliance group function is responsible for the compliance management system . The chief compl iance officer reports directly to the chairman of the Executive Board . The work done by Group Compliance focuses mainly on preventing and detecting corruption , fraud and other property offenses , violations of antitrust and competition law and money launder ing ; implementing data protection ; and responding to compliance violations . For other legal areas in which there is a risk of compliance violations , responsibility for appropriate and effective compliance management lies with the respective functions , whic h are supported in these tasks by Group Compliance . An effective culture of compliance is the basis for prevention . It be- gins with setting an appropriate “ tone from the top ” by the Executive Board and management and , in addition to risk analysis , includes in particular employee training , compliance consulting and the inter- nal publication of guidelines . In the course of risk analysis , the business activities of Continental are examined for compliance risks within the scope of top -down as Report on Risks and Opportunities Continental AG 2022 Annual Report Management Report Report on Risks and Opportunities 89 well as bottom -up review processes . The risk of compliance viola- tions arises primarily from organizational structures and workflows , the given market situation and activities in certain geographical re- gions . Furthermore , findings from investigations by the Group Inter- nal Audit group function as well as discussions with management and employees at all hierarchical levels are taken into account . This risk analysis is not a one -off procedure , but is performed annually and continuously updated . Prevention is also fostered by cons ultation on specific matters with Group Compliance and by the internal publication of guidelines on topics such as anti -corruption ( including giving and receiving gifts as well as donations and sponsoring ) , antitrust and competition law , anti-money launder ing and data protection . In training events , Group Compliance addresses topics directly related to everyday compli- ance issues and challenges . Continental introduced the Business Partner Code of Conduct to prevent compliance violations by suppliers , service providers , rep- resentatives or similar third parties . This must be recognized as a basic requirement for doing business with Continental . In the context of detection , Continental has set up an Integrity Hot- line to give employees and third parties outside t he Continental Group the opportunity to report violations of legal regulations , its fundamental values and ethical standards . Information on any kind of potential violations , including accounting manipulation , can be reported anonymously via this hotline . The hotline is available world- wide in many different languages . The company ’ s investigating units rigorously pursue any and all substantiated leads . Detection also includes the support of regular and incident -related audits conducted by Group Internal Aud it . Compliance -related is- sues are regularly the subject of audits by Group Internal Audit . Responses are aimed at implementing measures as a consequence of identified compliance violations . Group Compliance is involved in decision-making on measures that m ay be required , including thor- ough analysis to ensure that isolated incidents are not symptoms of failings in the system . In this way , corresponding gaps can be closed preventively and the compliance management system , as well as the internal control syste m , can be systematically developed . The third line of our internal control system is our Group Internal Audit group function . Group Internal Audit serves an independent and objective auditing and advisory function , applying a systematic approach to help r e- view , assess and improve the adequacy and effectiveness of the or- ganization ’ s governance systems . Continental ’ s Executive Board au- thorizes Group Internal Audit to conduct audits in all regions , com- panies or functions of Continental AG and its affiliated , fully consoli- dated subsidiaries worldwide . Group Internal Audit prepares an annual risk -oriented audit plan that is submitted to Continental ’ s Executive Board for review and approval . In addition to its planned general audits , Group Internal Audit also co nducts special investigations . These are based on tips and information about fraudulent acts received from internal or external sources such as the Integrity Hotline or the ombudsman ’ s office . Group Internal Audit regularly reports its audit and investiga tion re- sults to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee . Significant risks and potential improvements to internal controls are presented as part of the reporting to the aforementioned bodies . The imple- mentation by management of the measures recommended in the course of audits is also monitored by Group Internal Audit and re- ported to the Executive Board and the Audit Committee . Appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal control system The three -tier structure of the internal control system at Cont inen- tal and the associated guidelines and processes introduced world- wide fundamentally ensure that the relevant business processes are performed properly , economically and in compliance with legal regulations . Nevertheless , an internal control system canno t pro- vide complete protection , particularly if internal controls and guide- lines are intentionally circumvented . To proactively prevent and de- tect such circumvention , Continental has established monitoring functions at the various levels of the internal con trol system . Group Internal Audit assumes a particularly important role in this regard . Internal monitoring of compliance with internal controls is supple- mented by information we receive from external audits , for exam- ple as part of ISO certifications , cust omer and supplier audits , com- pany audits , customs audits and IT audits . These findings are taken into account when updating and making necessary adjustments to our internal control system . Continental ’ s Executive Board is kept continuously informed of the results of internal audit activities , external audits and governance system reporting , all of which form the basis for the Executive Board ’ s assessment of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the internal control system . The increased volatility of our business environment , the transfor- mation of the automotive industry , the ever faster pace of techno- logical development and the necessary consideration of sustaina- bility aspects have shown that an internal control system must be continuously adapted