Governance/uni2004GRI 2-13/uni2004In the reporting year , Daimler Truck prioritized sustainability as the top management task and created clear responsibility structures for the topic of sustainability in the Group . The Board of Management meets on a regular basis as the Corpo-rate Sustainability Board ( “ CSB ” ) to discuss sustainability issues of importance to the company . Within the Board of Man-agement , Chairman Martin Daum is responsible for the topic of sustainability in accordance with the allocation plan . The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Board of Man-agement , in particular with regard to sustainability issues . At the same time , some members of the Audit Committee have expertise in the area of sustainability reporting and its auditing . The management and organizational structures established in the 2021 reporting year are intended to strategically support our sustainability goals . For this purpose , the Sustainability Steering Committee ( “ SSC ” ) was created across the board , as well as working groups for the focus topics E , S and G.Within the Legal and Compliance department , a team for sus-tainability management deals with the relevant management issues . In addition to sustainability reporting , it is also respon-sible for the further development of the sustainable business strategy , human rights compliance and stakeholder manage-ment . This function reports to the Chairman of the Board of Management via the Company ’ s Chief Legal and Compliance Oﬃcer.Further relevant information can be found in the E Declaration on Corporate Governance.Principles and policies /uni2004GRI 2-23/uni2004We have anchored our values and principles in our Declaration of Principles on Social Responsibility and Human Rights , as well as in our overarching Daimler Truck Code of Conduct and in other topic-speciﬁc policies . By policies we mean the overarching in-house regulations of the Daimler Truck Group that provide the Group ’ s framework and which are directly binding for all employees and members of executive bodies deﬁned in the scope of application . Speciﬁcations on responsibilities , process , quality , translation , approval , implementation and discontinuation , communication and documentation of policies are laid down in the Policy Management Manual . The House of Policies ( “ HoP ” ) is the oﬃcial platform for the entire Daimler Truck Group to create a transparent , eﬀective and legally compliant policy landscape throughout the Group . All employees have access to the HoP and corresponding training courses are also oﬀered . The central management and decision-making body for all sustainability topics ( Corporate Sustainability Board – “ CSB ” ) is part of the Board levels of Daimler Truck Holding AG and Daimler Truck AG . Under the leadership of the Chairman of the Board of Manage-ment , the Corporate Sustainability Board meets at least twice a year.The Sustainability Steering Committee ( “ SSC ” ) is composed of senior management level representa-tives of the segments and representatives of various functional units . The SSC , under the direction of the Chief Legal & Compliance Officer , advises – as required – on the course of action at least once a quarter and assesses the sustainability performance reported by the working groups . The processing of the focus topics from the sustain-able business strategy is organized and structured by the respective responsible departments in working groups . Progress made and any important decisions are reported to the SSC and the CSB or submitted to them for a decision./uni00A0Sustainability SteeringCommittee ( SSC ) Segments and cross functions ( Legal & Compliance , Research & Development , Production , Purchasing , Group Strategy , Human Resources , Finance & Accounting , Sales , Investor Relations as well as External Affairs and Corporate Communications ) Board of Management ( BoM ) CorporateSustainability Board ( CSB ) =B.25Governance StructureAnnual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 66B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Compliance/uni2004GRI 2-27 , 3-3 , 205-1/-2/-3 , 206-1 , 207/uni2004/uni2003/uni2003/uni2004SDG 16/uni2004We are convinced : Only those who act ethically and legally responsible will remain successful in the long term . Compli-ance with rules and a corresponding compliance culture therefore assume a high priority at Daimler Truck . Compliance and responsible corporate governance are in line with our understanding of sustainable business . Daimler Truck has therefore implemented an established Compliance Man-agement System ( “ CMS ” ) , which comprises programs and pro-cesses to comply with legal requirements and to prevent mis-conduct . Daimler Truck informs and raises the awareness of its employees on compliance issues through numerous training measures and communication campaigns.Compliance management focus areasValue-based compliance is an indispensable part of our daily business activities and means that we aim to comply with laws and internal regulations . Our intention is to encourage compli-ant conduct throughout the entire company around the world by taking speciﬁc measures . In the following , we explain how we are pursuing our main objectives , what are the regulations and policies providing us with orientation in this regard , and which speciﬁc measures we are implementing . The main objectives of our Group-wide compliance activities are : – Combating corruption– Preserving maintaining and promoting fair competition– Ensuring compliance with technical and regulatory requirements– Respecting and supporting human rights– Adherence to data protection laws– Preventing money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing– Complying with sanctions and export regulationsCombating corruptionThe objective of our compliance measures is to minimize cor-ruption in all business activities . We therefore critically examine our business partners and transactions and deal with authori-ties and public oﬃcials in a particularly sensitive manner . An important component of our anti-corruption compliance management system is Transparency International ’ s Corrup-tion Perception Index . We see increased corruption risks in the area of sales activities in high-risk countries as well as in our business relations with authorized dealers and general distrib-utors worldwide.Maintaining and promoting fair competitionOur Group-wide Antitrust Compliance Program is oriented to national and international standards to ensure fair competition . It comprises a binding , globally valid Daimler Truck Group stan-dard that deﬁnes how matters of antitrust law are to be assessed and how the work with industry associations has to be carried out . It is based on the standards of the underlying European regulations and takes into account established legal practice at European antitrust authorities , as well as the rulings of European courts . Additional guidelines and practical toolkits are also intended to support our employees worldwide in recognizing situations that are critical under antitrust law and acting in accordance with the regulations . This is particularly important when employees deal with competitors , cooperate with dealers and general distributors , and participate in trade association work.Ensuring compliance with technical and regulatory requirementsProduct compliance for Daimler Truck means compliance with technical and regulatory requirements , standards and laws that are relevant to business activities around the world.Our objective is to identify risks within the product creation process - i.e. , in product development and certiﬁcation – as well as in product reliability process at an early stage , includ-ing the implementation of preventative measures . In doing so , we take into account the fundamental spirit of laws and regula-tions as well as internal speciﬁcations and processes in devel-opment and production as well as a/fter the vehicles have been placed on the market.The Product Compliance Management System ( “ PCMS ” ) deﬁnes principles , structures and processes in order to pro-vide our employees with certainty and guidance , especially in terms of challenging questions on how to interpret technical regulations . Furthermore , the PCMS also includes minimum standards for handling our products in the ﬁeld regarding safety , regulatory conformity and emissions issues.Respecting and supporting human rightsWe are strongly committed to respect and support human rights and we also expect this from our business partners throughout the value chain . With our Human Rights Compli-ance Management System ( “ Human Rights CMS ” ) , we pursue a systematic approach to fulﬁlling our human rights due dili-gence obligations . The Human Rights CMS is based on interna-tionally recognized standards , such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ( “ UNGPs ” ) , which are the basis for regulatory and legislative business and human rights eﬀorts worldwide.As part of the CMS , we systematically review on a risk basis whether human rights are respected in our controlled Group companies and in our supply chain , and have deﬁned various measures , both to prevent and minimize potential adverse impacts on human rights through our companies and our busi-ness activities , and to remedy them . Further information can be found in the chapter E/uni00A0Human rights . Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 67B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Adhering to data protection lawsAt Daimler Truck , data and the systematic evaluation of data are the basis for new business models , innovative technologies and eﬃcient processes . However , data not only opens up busi-ness opportunities , but its handling requires special care as comprehensive data protection requirements apply both in Europe and globally.In the year under review , we at Daimler Truck adopted a com-mitment to data responsibility which deﬁnes a clear framework on how we handle data based on the three guiding principles of “ added value for the customer ” , “ business potential ” and “ responsible use of data ” .The Chief Data Privacy Oﬃcer performs the tasks deﬁned by law to comply with data protection regulations.Daimler Truck ’ s “ Global Data and Information Policy ” lays the foundation for responsible and legally compliant handling of information and data worldwide . It deﬁnes a binding minimum standard for all Group units . Besides that , the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation and the applicable local data protection laws are to be considered.At the same time , our Data Compliance Management System supports the Group in systematically planning , implementing , and continuously monitoring measures to ensure compliance with the data protection requirements.Daimler Truck has established a central reporting procedure for all information security incidents : The Information Security Incident Management Process . Employees and contractors are instructed to report all potential personal data breaches and information security violations via this process . During the year under review , a small number of cases were reported to the responsible data protection authorities . This did not result in any oﬃcial measures against the company.The contact details of the Chief Data Privacy Oﬃcer are pub-licly available . Customers with data protection concerns can always contact the Chief Data Privacy Oﬃcer . In the year under review , Daimler Truck did not have any cases in which data protection supervisory authorities took action following a cus-tomer complaint.Preventing money laundering and financing of terrorismThe purpose of compliance in the prevention of money launder-ing and terrorist ﬁnancing is both to prevent the placement of funds from criminal transactions into the legal economic cycle and the ﬁnancing of terrorist associations via transactions with Daimler Truck . Therefore , we have implemented global mini-mum standards , processes and safeguards throughout the Group to comply with all applicable anti-money laundering laws . Daimler Truck has appointed a Group Anti-Money Laundering Oﬃcer . He ensures compliance across divisions at Daimler Truck Holding AG and all of its Group companies and is respon-sible for Group-wide standards and processes pursuant to the German Anti-Money Laundering Act.The Anti-Money Laundering Oﬃcer is assisted by two deputy Anti-Money Laundering Oﬃcers . One deputy is responsible for ensuring compliance measures for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing for the Industrial Business , while the other deputy is responsible for the segment Financial Services.Complying with sanctions and export regulationsA central Group unit for export control , sanctions , anti-money- laundering and dangerous goods pursues a combined compli-ance approach with the aim to ensure all applicable personal sanctions ( sanctions compliance ) and goods-related sanctions ( export control compliance ) in the best way possible through-out the Group . As a minimum standard of Daimler Truck , regardless of its applicability , the sanctions lists of the EU , the United Kingdom and the US ( including the US Oﬃce of Foreign Assets Control ( “ OFAC ” ) ; US Bureau of Industry and Security ( “ BIS ” ) ) are checked through an IT-system in every business transaction . Group-wide export control ensures , both through its worldwide internal policy and through its IT-supported export control management system , that applicable national and suprana-tional export control prohibitions and licensing requirements are observed for all exports or shipments of export control- relevant goods initiated by Daimler Truck or controlled majority companies.Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 68B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Compliance Management SystemThrough our Compliance Management System ( “ CMS ” ) , we at Daimler Truck aim to promote compliance with regulations and policies at our company and to prevent misconduct . The mea-sures needed for this are deﬁned by our compliance and legal organizations in a process that also takes the Company ’ s busi-ness requirements into account in an appropriate manner . The CMS consists of basic principles and measures that ensure compliant behavior throughout the Company . It is based on national and international standards and is applied on a global scale at Daimler Truck . The CMS consists of seven elements that build on one another.B.26The Daimler Truck Compliance Management System 4 . Risks5 . Program1 . Values7 . Monitoring & Improvement6 . Communication & Training2 . Objectives3 . Organization Corporate culture and compliance valuesWe aim to ensure that all employees are aware of and comply with the applicable Code of Conduct and act responsibly , with integrity and in compliance with the rules . Our Group-wide Code of Conduct serves as a general benchmark for us : It sets out the guidelines for our actions and helps us to make the right decisions . The policy is binding for all employees of the controlled Group companies of Daimler Truck Holding AG , is available in ten languages and centrally . In 2022 , the Code of Conduct was revised with the help of employees and aligned with the “ Purpose Principles ” of Daimler Truck . It was pub-lished at the beginning of February 2023.Compliance objectives The objectives of the compliance program are deﬁned and under the responsibility of the Chief Legal and Compliance Oﬃcer and the Compliance Board on the basis of the compli-ance strategy . The compliance strategy is derived from the corporate objectives as well as from the applicable laws , regu-lations , voluntary commitments and the “ Purpose Principles ” of Daimler Truck . For the individual compliance areas , this means minimizing corruption risks , antitrust risks , export control risks , risks from money laundering and violations of sanctions and terror lists , data protection , product conformity and human rights as well as speciﬁc environmental risks.Compliance organizationThe compliance organization of the Daimler Truck Group is organized regionally and along the functions . In this way , it can provide eﬀective support – for example , through guidelines and recommendations . Functional or regional contacts are available for this purpose . Therefore , a global network of local contacts ensures that our compliance standards are upheld . The network supports the management of the Group compa-nies in implementing our compliance program locally . In addi-tion , the Compliance Board manages overarching issues and monitors whether our measures are eﬀective . The Board has the task of responding at an early stage to changes in business models and in the business environment , picking-up on regula-tory developments and continuously developing the CMS . The Compliance Board is composed of representatives of the Com-pliance and Legal departments , meets regularly and is chaired by the Chief Legal and Compliance Oﬃcer . He reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG and reports regularly to the Board of Management of Daimler Truck Holding AG and Daimler Truck AG , to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and to the Group Risk Management Committee . From the Company ’ s perspec-tive , the compliance network ’ s independence from the seg-ments is assured by the direct reporting line to Legal and Com-pliance department and to the Chairman of the Board of Management . Compliance risksDaimler Truck systematically reviews and evaluates all con-trolled Group companies and majority shareholdings globally and its own central units on a regular basis in order to mini-mize compliance risks . In doing so , centrally available data is accessed and , if necessary , local information . The results of the regular compliance risk evaluation form the basis of our risk controlling . We use these to implement targeted risk-mini-mizing measures worldwide . This risk management approach serves as a framework for all compliance ﬁelds . The risk analy-sis for Daimler Truck , which is valid for ﬁnancial year 2022 , was carried out before the spin-oﬀ from the former Daimler AG at the end of 2021 and forms the basis of our compliance risk management . The compliance risk management processes were adopted by Daimler Truck a/fter the spin-oﬀ and adapted to its requirements in the reporting year . Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 69B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck BPO Compliance programDaimler Truck ’ s compliance program comprises elements such as the Business Practices Oﬃce , business partner due diligence processes , compliance contractual clauses and other measures tailored to the respective compliance ﬁeld in order to minimize risks and counteract violations of laws and rules . The individual measures are derived from the ﬁndings of our systematic compliance risk analysis . In this respect , we focus on , among other things : Continuous enhancement of aware-ness of compliance and adherence to relevant processes , con-sistent follow-up of reports of misconduct , and the formulation of clear requirements for the conduct of our business partners.Reporting of rule violations via the BPO whistleblower system/uni2004GRI 2-27/uni2004The whistleblower system Business Practices Oﬃce ( “ BPO ” ) enables employees of Daimler Truck as well as business part-ners and third parties around the world to report violations of regulations . Information can be submitted by email , post or by using a reporting form . In addition , external toll-free hotlines are available in Brazil , Japan , South Africa and the US . Reports can also be submitted anonymously if local laws permit this . In Germany , a neutral external intermediary is available for whis-tleblowers as an additional contact point . Reports to the BPO whistleblower system alert us to potential risks for the Group and its employees . This can prevent damage.A globally valid corporate policy deﬁnes BPO procedures and the corresponding responsibilities . Its aim is to ensure a fair and transparent procedure that takes both the principle of pro-portionality for the person concerned and the protection of the whistleblower into account . The policy also serves as the standard by which we at Daimler Truck judge breaches of regulations and decide on consequences . If , a/fter an initial risk-based assessment , a notiﬁcation is classiﬁed as a violation of the rules with a low risk for the Company , the BPO transfers the case to the responsible department , for example Human Resources , Corporate Secu-rity , or Corporate Data Protection . The relevant department follows up on the notiﬁcation and clariﬁes the case under its own responsibility . Rule violations with a low risk for the Com-pany include , for example , the/ft , embezzlement or personal enrichment with a value of less than €100,000 – provided that they do not fall into the category of corruption.If the BPO classiﬁes a notiﬁcation as a high-risk breach of reg-ulations , a/fter a risk-based initial assessment , it then refers the case to an investigative unit . The BPO provides support for the subsequent investigation until the case is closed . Examples of high-risk rule violations include oﬀenses related to corrup-tion , breaches of antitrust law , and violations of anti-money laundering regulations , as well as violations of binding techni-cal provisions or violations in connection with environmental regulations . Cases of sexual harassment , human rights viola-tions , discrimination and racism are also among the high-risk rule violations . In order to constantly increase trust in our BPO whistleblower system and make it even better known to our employees , we are reporting and raising awareness about the BPO through a variety of communication measures . Receipt of reportCase is taken onInvestigationCase closedB.27Daimler Truck BPO process WhistleblowerInbox & pre-sortingInitial risk-basedassessmentHigh risk : BPO process Minor risk : Forwarded toresponsible unitLegal review , investigation and closure of case by responsible unitLegal reviewInvestigation byinvestigation unitCase closedConﬁrmation letterWhistleblower obtainsconﬁrmation of receiptAnnual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 70B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck In the 2022 reporting year , 19 high risk cases were newly created via the BPO whistleblower system . Among the newly opened cases , two fell into the category of “ corruption ( pas-sive ) ” , two in the category of “ severe cases of sexual harass-ment ” and two in the category of “ severe injuries to physical and psychological integrity ” . A further eight cases fell in the category of “ the/ft ( over €100,000 ) ” , four in the category of “ damage to reputation ” and one in the category of “ other high risks ” .In the 2022 reporting year , a total of 15 cases classiﬁed as “ applicable/closed ( partially ) with merit ” were closed . In these 15 cases , a speciﬁc initial suspicion had been conﬁrmed . Three of these cases were in the category of “ the/ft ( over €100,000 ) , ” nine in the category of “ damages ( over €100,000 ) , ” and three in the category of “ severe cases of sexual harassment. ” The company decides here on appropriate measures in terms of proportionality and fairness . In the year under review , person-nel measures included summary dismissals , disciplinary warn-ings and warnings with a reduction in variable remuneration , suspensions and voluntary termination.Further information and contact details can be found on our w/uni00A0Website.Sales partners and suppliers acting with integrityIn this regard , beyond the Group companies , we also formulate clear requirements for our business partners , because conduct with integrity and in compliance with rules is a prerequisite for trusting cooperation . When selecting our direct business part-ners , we therefore pay close attention to ensure that they com-ply with the law and that they pay the same attention in the supply chain . Our expectations of them have been set out in detail in the Business Partner Standards , which were revised during the reporting year and which we hand out to our busi-ness partners . In the Business Partner Standards , we also summarize all the requirements we place on our suppliers for sustainable action and formulate our expectations with regard to working conditions , respect and support human rights , the environment and safety , and compliance . Further require-ments can be found in our “ Daimler Truck Special Terms ” ( order conditions ) and the compliance contractual clauses . We also provide our business partners with a speciﬁcally devel-oped Compliance Awareness Module . The module raises awareness of current requirements and oﬀers our suppliers and sales partners assistance in dealing with potential compli-ance risks . In accordance with the United Nations Guiding Prin-ciples on Business and Human Rights , we are working to ensure that business partners , especially direct suppliers , also respect human rights . Besides this , we are committed to ensuring that this is also the case with indirect suppliers and are taking appropriate measures . We review direct business partners as part of risk-based due diligence processes . In the year under review , we audited all new sales partners . In addition , we use a permanent monitor-ing process to review all current sales partners with the aim of identifying possible conduct violations by sales partners . In the year under review , we also further developed our globally standardized and risk-based procedures for selecting and cooperating with suppliers , particularly in light of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act . Further information can be found on the w/uni00A0Website for our suppliers and in the chapters E/uni00A0Green supply chain and E/uni00A0Human rights.Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 71B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Internal information , communication and training measuresDaimler Truck oﬀers a comprehensive range of training courses on compliance topics . Training needs are determined on a regular basis and adjustments as well as enhancements were carried out . The contents and topics of the training courses are tailored to the roles and functions of the respec-tive target group . A web-based and target group-oriented training program is available for employees in administrative areas , consisting of a range of mandatory modules . Employees from production and production-related areas can voluntarily take part in the training program . The training modules are assigned when an employee is hired , promoted or transferred to a function that involves an increased risk . The web-based training measures are available worldwide via a Learning Management System ( “ LMS ” ) . We are supplementing our web-based training program with face-to-face training , some of which we conducted in digital form in 2022 . We also oﬀer information and qualiﬁcation measures for supervisory and management functions . As part of an executive onboarding program , we are providing information on legal and compli-ance topics in order to assist newly appointed Supervisory Board members and members of the executive management of the Group companies in their new role . B.29Compliance training program - web-based training courses/uni2004GRI 205-2/uni2004Basic Modules1 /uni25BENumber of participants4Antitrust Overview40,962Management Module2Inclusion in Mind ! 6,202Expert Modules3Compliance @ Marketing and Sales12,123Compliance @ Procurement387Insider Law1,532Product Compliance8,4991 This module is automatically assigned to all active employees ( full-time and part-time employees ) in the administration of Daimler Truck AG and controlled group companies who meet the IT requirements for carrying out training courses in the Daimler Truck Learning Management System.2 This module is automatically assigned to all managers ( full-time and part-time employees , level 4 and higher ) of the administration of Daimler Truck AG and controlled group companies that meet the IT requirements for carrying out training courses in the Daimler Truck Learning Manage-ment System.3 These modules are automatically assigned to relevant active employees ( full-time and part-time employees ) in the administration of Daimler Truck AG and controlled Group companies who meet the IT requirements for carrying out training courses in the Daimler Truck Learning Manage-ment System.4 Number of participants shows the training completions in the Learning Management System.B.28Compliance Training ProgramManagement and employee training Compliance awareness for business partnersExecutive Onboarding Program for CEOs and CFOs of the Daimler Truck Group Web-based compliance training program Compliance Awareness Module for suppliers and sales business partners– Onboarding with all newly appointed CEOs and CFOs ( mandatory ) .– Centrally assigned basic , management and expert modules ( mandatory ) for employees in administrative areas of Daimler Truck AG and controlled companies taking into . account the respective role , function and risk.– System-based reporting functions and automatic reminders to track completion of mandatory trainings.– The local Legal and Compliance network offers additional training in face-to-face and/or virtual formats as required - taking into account the local risk profile of the respective unit and the centrally available web-based training courses . The infrastructure for the documentation of these training sessions is provided centrally.– The web-based Compliance Awareness Module is made available online to Daimler Truck suppliers and sales business partners . The content refers amongst others to our Daimler Truck Business Partner Standards . – The module explains our guiding principles for integrity and supports our business partners in dealing with potential integrity and compliance risks.Face-to-face / virtual trainingsAnnual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 72B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck B.30Compliance training program - face-to-face training courses1,2/uni2004GRI 205-2/uni2004Compliance ﬁeldsNumber of participants- Anti-Corruption- Anti-Money Laundering- Antitrust- Compliance in General- Data Compliance- Export Control- Sanctions Compliance11,8131 Face-to-face trainings were partly carried out in digital form.2 Target group : Relevant managers and administration employees worldwide./uni25BE Monitoring and improvementsDaimler Truck reviews its CMS programs , processes and mea-sures on the basis of an annual monitoring process and ana-lyzes whether they are appropriate and eﬀective . Centrally available data and , if necessary , local information is accessed . References to non-eﬀective implementation of measures are recorded as part of monitoring and measures are deﬁned for this purpose . If required by changing risks or new legal require-ments , we adapt our processes and measures in the CMS.The monitoring results and other possible measures are evalu-ated and approved by the Compliance Board . The compliance risk and monitoring process is carried out at Daimler Truck for all speciﬁed compliance ﬁelds . Compliance ﬁelds that are in the process of being set up are subject to an adequacy check . Moreover , compliance programs and processes along estab-lished areas are examined in regard to their eﬀectiveness . /uni25B4In the reporting year , the described monitoring process and the annual adequacy and eﬀectiveness review did not reveal any indications that the compliance program , processes or measures decided upon would not be appropriate or eﬀective in the context of the company ’ s risk situation./uni25BE Furthermore , KPMG AG Wirtscha/ftsprüfungsgesellscha/ft , Berlin , audited the CMS of the former Daimler AG for anti-cor-ruption , antitrust and technical compliance ( “ tCMS ” ) in accor-dance with Auditing Standard 980 of the German Institute of Public Auditors . The audits were geared to appropriateness , implementation and eﬀectiveness , and were successfully com-pleted for the former Daimler AG , for CMS anti-corruption in 2019 , for tCMS with a focus on emissions relevance in 2020 , and for CMS antitrust in 2021 as a re-audit a/fter the initial audit in 2016 . In 2019 , the design of the Data CMS was also audited . Selected units of Daimler Truck AG also participated in the decentralized eﬀectiveness audit.Risk and opportunity management /uni2004GRI 2-25/uni2004Risk and opportunity management is an integral part of the Group-wide planning , management and reporting process . It is intended to support the achievement of the Company ’ s goals in a sustainable manner and to raise awareness of risks in the Company . The ESG-related risks and opportunities that are linked to our own business activities , products , and services of Daimler Truck and that could very probably have serious nega-tive impact on the non-ﬁnancial aspects with regard to the CSR Directive Implementation Act ( “ CSR-RUG ” ) can be found in the overall assessment of the risk and opportunity situation in the risk and opportunity report of the combined manage-ment report . There was no occurrence of serious non-ﬁnancial risks in the year under review . Detailed information can be found in the E Risk and Opportunity Report . /uni25B4Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 73B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Tax obligations /uni2004GRI 207/uni2004Daimler Truck sees itself as a responsible company that strives to comply with its worldwide tax obligations . In this context , we want to live up to our corporate values and to our social and ethical responsibility . As part of the tax strategy of the Group , we pursue the follow-ing principles in particular , taking into account the economic and social impacts and in accordance with the corporate and business strategy : – Through our actions , we want to ensure that the tax obliga-tions of Group ’ s companies are met and integrity standards are maintained through measures such as eﬃcient , high-quality and reliable expertise , processes , systems , methods and controls.– We live an active risk management for the Group and its operational employees through an appropriate Tax Compli-ance Management System ( “ Tax CMS “ ) . – We pursue legal , active and non-aggressive tax planning based on economic grounds ( “ tax follows business ” ) . This means that we , as a company , comply with our responsibility as a taxpayer . We also strive to work cooperatively , transpar-ently , and constructively with the tax authorities . In the pro-cess , we maintain our legal standpoints and defend our interests wherever we believe such actions are appropriate and legitimate . The Group ’ s tax strategy deﬁnes the limits of our actions , and this strategy is further speciﬁed and imple-mented by means of organizational and content-related policies , provisions , and instructions.The worldwide responsibility for tax is allocated to the Head of Tax of Daimler Truck . Signiﬁcant tax-relevant decisions are made in the Tax Compliance and Tax Risk Committee ( “ TCRC ” ) , which the Chief Financial Oﬃcer is a member of . The TCRC is also kept informed on an ongoing basis about material tax issues . The tax policies regulate the responsibilities , tasks and duties of the persons entrusted with tax matters at Daimler Truck . In addition , they provide concrete implementation guidelines for meeting relevant legal obligations and enhance our employees ’ awareness of tax-related issues . In accordance with the Group ’ s Code of Conduct , intentional violations of external and/or internal tax requirements must be reported and fol-lowed up . The same applies to failure to correct incorrectly processed transactions.The Group-wide Tax CMS is a deﬁned sub-area of our general CMS and is the responsibility of the Tax department . Tax risk management is also part of the Tax CMS . Its function is to monitor and check whether tax obligations are met . This risk management system , which is consistent across the Group , serves to identify and reduce tax risks within Daimler Truck and associated personal risks of the employees acting on behalf of the Group . It comprises numerous measures , such as ongoing monitoring or integration of tax risks in the internal control system and in the Group-wide risk management pro-cess in accordance with the risk management policy . In the year under review , we were not aware of any signiﬁcant viola-tions of tax laws that would have resulted in criminal proceed-ings.Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 74B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 101B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler TruckEnvironmental objective 4 - “ Transition to a circular economy ” – Activity 3.3 : The possibility of using secondary raw materials and the possibility of a design for easy disassembly and durability must be taken into account for the relevant vehi-cles . In addition , hazardous substances must be traceable and a waste management established at the sites . In this context , various Group-internal guidelines and standards apply as well as , in individual cases , further suitable evi-dence . The issue of durability is anchored , for example , in the product development process . The “ Group Standard for Waste Management ” deﬁnes waste management across the Group . – Activities 6.3 , 6.5 and 6.6 : The criterion requires the exis-tence of waste management measures , in particular at the end of a vehicle ’ s life cycle.– Activities 6.5 and 6.6 : Deﬁned quotas of recyclable or reus-able materials in the products must be complied with . If the quotas determined in accordance with the speciﬁcations reach the required threshold values , the technical screening criterion is considered to be fulﬁlled . Environmental objective 5 - “ Pollution prevention and control ” - Activity 3.3 : The criterion is based on Appendix C of the Del-egated Regulation ( EU ) 2021/2139 . Appendix C refers to var-ious European regulations out of the chemicals legislation . The deﬁned substances are subject to restrictions on manu-facture , placing on the market and use , both in terms of use at the sites and in the products . There are diﬃculties in interpreting the vague legal term “ essential for society ” . – Activities 6.3 , 6.5 and 6.6 : Compliance with certain tire cate-gories in terms of rolling resistance and rolling noise shall be demonstrated . In the reporting year , appropriate analyses were performed for the relevant vehicles to provide the required evidence . If information on the tires is available and the corresponding classes are adhered to , the technical screening criterion is considered to be fulﬁlled . Environmental objective 6 - “ Protection of biodiversity and ecosystems ” - Activity 3.3 : The criterion refers to Appendix D of Delegated Regulation ( EU ) 2021/2139 , which deﬁnes requirements for the protection of biodiversity and biodiversity-sensitive areas in the vicinity of the sites . As part of the environmen-tal due diligence audits , compliance with environmental per-mits is veriﬁed , among other aspects . The impact on nearby , sensitive areas is also examined . If required , measures are derived ( for details , see chapter E Preventing pollution ) .During the assessment , the relevant technical screening crite-ria were analyzed , interpreted , the results documented and substantiated by corresponding evidence documents and cal-culations.Minimum safeguards As part of the audit of compliance with the minimum safe-guards , the following topics were analyzed centrally : - Human rights , including labor rights ; - Corruption and bribery ; - Taxation ; – Fair competition.No increased risk was identiﬁed and assessed in this regard for the 2022 reporting year . For each potential risk area , pre-ventive and , if necessary , remedial measures are already in place . As part of the due diligence processes , it was possible to demonstrate that there are no convictions in any of the four subject areas ( for details , see chapter E Social ) Reporting on the three performance indicatorsReporting on the KPIs required under the Taxonomy Regulation for turnover , CapEx and OpEx is shown in tables /uni00A0B.52 , /uni00A0B.53 and /uni00A0B.54 . All activities are fully assigned to the envi-ronmental objective of “ climate change mitigation ” . Further-more , all activities can be clearly assigned to the respective economic activity according to the Taxonomy Regulation . This avoids double counting in the calculation of the overall perfor-mance indicators . Further informationAbout this report /uni2004GRI 2-2/-3/uni2004The information in our chapter “ Sustainability at Daimler Truck ” relates to the entire Daimler Truck Group . Further information can be found in the section E Business model . The reporting period corresponds to our ﬁnancial year , which runs from Janu-ary 1 to December 31./uni25BE Non-financial statement of the Group/uni2004GRI 2-5/uni2004The non-ﬁnancial statement of the Group according to Sec-tions 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e of the German Commercial Code ( Handelsgesetzbuch or “ HGB ” ) were subjected to a business audit to obtain limited assurance . It contains the essential information on the aspects of environmental concerns , employee concerns , social con-cerns , combating corruption and bribery , and respect for human rights in the chapter “ Sustainability at Daimler Truck ” as well as information on the E/uni00A0Business model and non-ﬁ-nancial risks in the E/uni00A0Risk and Opportunity Report . Part of the non-ﬁnancial statement within the chapter “ Sustainability at Daimler Truck ” are the correspondingly marked texts and tables ( /uni25BE/uni25B4 ) . Other texts , tables , cross-references and content of external websites are additional information which are not part of the non-ﬁnancial statement of the Group and therefore have not been audited.Daimler Truck applies the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative ( “ GRI ” ) as a framework for external reporting . The contents of the non-ﬁnancial Group statement in conjunction with further information that can be found in this report and on our website have been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards . /uni25B4The GRI content index can be found on our w/uni00A0Website . In addition to the Sustainable Development Goals ( “ SDG ” ) , on which we focus , we refer to other SDGs to which we contribute with our activities . Further information can be found on our w/uni00A0Website under the heading “ Sustainability ” . /uni25BE A materiality analysis was conducted in 2022 to determine the relevant reporting content in accordance with sections 289c and 315c HGB . For details , please refer to section E/uni00A0Materiality analysis . /uni25B4What has changed in this report ? /uni2004GRI 2-4/uni2004Qualitative information in the report relates primarily to the 2022 ﬁnancial year , while the key ﬁgures presented generally cover three years . The reporting date for the collection of quantitative data was December 31 , 2022 . Isolated deviations are marked in each case.During the reporting period , further organizational changes occurred due to the spin-oﬀ of Daimler Truck AG in Decem-ber 2021 from the former Daimler AG compared to the 2021 Report , so that comparability of the data with the previous Sustainability Report is only partially possible.We see more integrated reporting as another important mech-anism for further developing our sustainable business strategy . For this reason , we have decided to integrate aspects of sus-tainability into the Annual Report for the reporting year and have refrained from a separate sustainability report./uni25BE EU taxonomy Companies are obliged to apply the Taxonomy Regulation if they are required to prepare a non-ﬁnancial statement in accordance with Articles 19a and 29a of the EU Accounting Directive , implemented by Section 289b Subsection 1 and Sec-tion 315b Subsection 1 of the HGB . According to this , Daimler Truck has been obliged to apply the Taxonomy Regulation since the 2021 reporting year . Daimler Truck applied the reporting requirements in accordance with the Taxonomy Regulation for the 2021 reporting year and exercised the relief provisions for the year of initial application , according to which only the tax-onomy eligibility had to be reported . For the 2022 reporting year , Daimler Truck is publishing the full disclosures in accor-dance with the Taxonomy Regulation for the ﬁrst time . Thus , in addition to the proportions of taxonomy-eligible and non-eligi-ble economic activities , the proportions of taxonomy-aligned economic activities in turnover , investments ( “ CapEx ” ) and operating expenditure ( “ OpEx ” ) must also be disclosed . Production-related energy and environmental data/uni2004GRI 305-1/-2/-4/uni2004The data in the Environment section is based on the Group structure as of the reporting date of December 31 , 2022 . This includes all production sites and selected test tracks and R & D sites of the Group companies controlled by Daimler Truck as well as selected joint ventures with 50 % participation . Production sites include all “ Completely Built Up ” ( “ CBU ” ) , “ Completely Knocked Down ” ( “ CKD ” ) and Remanufacturing ( “ Reman ” ) sites . There has been no retroactive adjustment of the ﬁgures for 2020 and 2021.The environmental data is collected from the sites in our envi-ronmental data system . If in individual cases no actual values are available in February , estimates are made on the basis of the previous year ’ s values and the change in production . Air emissions are measured regularly and extrapolated to the year , and VOC emissions are also calculated on the basis of various input or output parameters.Daimler Truck calculates and documents its CO2 emissions according to the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Stan-dard 2004 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative , in accor-dance with the categories Scope 1 and Scope 2 . Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are reported in accordance with the Con-trol approach of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.Documented are all direct CO2 emissions from our Company ’ s own sources ( Scope 1 ) , indirect emissions resulting from the generation of the purchased electricity and district heat ( Scope 2 ) .Scope 1 : We calculate our direct emissions from the combus- tion of fuels , heating oil , natural gas , liqueﬁed petroleum gas , and coal with ﬁxed CO2 emission factors as speciﬁed by the Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 127B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Sustainability at Daimler Truck Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 143B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Risk and Opportunity ReportWarranty and goodwill cases could arise in the Daimler Truck Group if the quality of products does not meet the require-ments , regulations are not fully complied with , or support in the event of problems and product care can not be provided in the required form . Such warranty and goodwill cases as well as quality problems both with components in vehicles and in con-nection with technical innovations on vehicles that require adjustments can lead to ﬁnancial burdens . Possible claims in connection with such risks are examined and , if necessary , appropriate measures are initiated for the aﬀected products.Information technology risks and opportunitiesThe systematically pursued digitalization strategy opens up new opportunities for Daimler Truck and allows it to enhance customer beneﬁts and the value of the Company . Neverthe-less , the high penetration level of information technology ( “ IT ” ) in all business areas also harbors risks for business and pro-duction processes as well as for their services and products.The ever-growing threat posed by cybercrime and the spread of aggressive malicious code give rise to risks that can aﬀect the availability , integrity and conﬁdentiality of information and IT-supported operating resources . Despite extensive precau-tions , in the worst-case scenario , this can lead to a temporary interruption of IT-supported business processes with severe negative eﬀects on the Group ’ s earnings . In addition , the loss or misuse of sensitive data may under certain circumstances lead to a loss of reputation . In particular , applicable regulatory requirements such as the EU General Data Protection Directive ( “ EU-GDPR ” ) may , among other things , give rise to claims by third parties and result in costly regulatory requirements and penalties with an impact on earnings.For the globally active Daimler Truck Group and its comprehen-sive business and production processes , it is of vital impor-tance that information is available , up-to-date , complete and correct and that it can be exchanged as needed . The Group ’ s internal IT security framework is based on international stan-dards and uses industrial standards and good practice as part of its protective measures . New regulatory requirements for cyber security and cyber security management systems are taken into account in the further development of our processes and policies.Appropriately secure IT systems and a reliable IT infrastructure must be used to protect information . Cyber threats must be identiﬁed over the entire lifecycle of applications and IT sys-tems , and dealt with in line with their criticality . Particular attention is paid to risks that could , at worst , result in an inter-ruption of business processes due to IT system failures and/or the loss and corruption of data . The advancing digitalization and connectivity of production equipment is supplemented by coordinated technical and organizational security measures.Due to growing demands concerning the conﬁdentiality , integ-rity and availability of data , Daimler Truck has implemented a wide range of preventive and corrective measures in order to minimize the associated risks and limit possible damage . For example , the Group reduces potential interruptions of operat-ing processes in data centers by means of mirrored data sets , decentralized data storage , outsourced data backups and IT systems designed for high availability . Emergency plans are developed and employees are trained and regularly sensitized in order to maintain operating capability . Speciﬁc threats are analyzed , and countermeasures are coordinated at a globally active Cyber Security & Response Center . The protection of products and services against the danger of falling prey to hacker attacks and cybercrime is under constant development.Personnel risks and opportunitiesThe Daimler Truck Group is dependent on good relationships with its employees , their trade unions as well as employee representative bodies and stakeholders and is party to a number of collective agreements , some of which impose obli-gations and restrictions on the Daimler Truck Group in connec-tion with reorganizations , restructurings or similar corporate actions and which it may not be able to extend , renew or replace in a favorable or timely manner or at all . Any deteriora-tion of the relationships with trade unions , works councils and other employee representative bodies could adversely impact the Daimler Truck Group ’ s business operations . The Group could face strikes or other types of conﬂicts with trade unions , works councils or its employees in the future . Any such strikes , conﬂicts , work stoppages or other industrial actions may dis-rupt the Group ’ s production and sales activities , damage its reputation and adversely aﬀect its customer relations . Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 144B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Risk and Opportunity ReportCompetition for highly qualiﬁed employees and managers con-tinues to be very ﬁerce in the industry and the regions in which Daimler Truck operates . The future success of the Daimler Truck Group also depends on the extent to which it succeeds in recruiting , integrating and retaining specialist staﬀ . The established human resources instruments take such personnel risks into consideration . A particular focus of human resources management is the targeted personnel development and fur-ther training of the Company ’ s workforce . In order to remain successful as a company , we continuously develop the way we work together and optimize our management culture.Demographic developments are forcing the Group to deal with changes caused by an aging workforce and to secure a skilled new generation of specialists and future executives . Generation management addresses this by implementing mea-sures that do justice to the scope of the issue . We counter eco-nomic , market and competitive ﬂuctuations with the estab-lished time and ﬂexibility instruments , enabling reactions that are suitable for the respective situation . Efficiency improvements and cost savings are crucial for the Group to maintain its competitiveness and improve its prof-itability . The Group is in the midst of implementing a number of operational performance and cost-saving initiatives to address ﬁxed and variable costs aﬀecting proﬁtability . These opera-tional performance and cost-saving measures , or components thereof , may not deliver the intended beneﬁts within the time the Group targets . This may result in implementation costs in excess of those originally budgeted by the Group and the actual results of the initiatives may diﬀer from the targets . If the targeted operational performance and cost-saving mea-sures are not fully realized or achieved within the intended time , this could have an adverse eﬀect on the Group ’ s proﬁt margins.Risks and opportunities related to associated companies and joint venturesCooperation with partners in associated companies and joint ventures is of vital importance for Daimler Truck , in the trans-formation towards both zero-emission mobility and compre-hensive digitalization . Particularly in the case of new technolo-gies , associated companies can help boost synergy eﬀects and improve cost structures in order to successfully face the com-petition in the commercial vehicle industry.The Daimler Truck Group generally participates in the risks and opportunities of associated companies and joint ventures in line with its equity interest . It is also subject to share-price risks and opportunities if those companies are listed on the stock exchange.The remeasurement of an interest in an associated company can result in risks and opportunities related to the invest-ment ’ s carrying amount for the segment to which the associ-ated company belongs . Risks can also arise from ongoing busi-ness activities , especially through the integration of employees , technologies and products . The Group ’ s business and legal interests may not always be aligned with those of its associated companies and joint ventures and any of the Group ’ s current or future associated companies or joint ven-tures may fail to be successful , achieve their planned objec-tives and meet their targeted timelines . In addition , further ﬁnancial obligations or additional ﬁnancing requirements could arise . Associated companies are subject to a monitoring pro-cess so that , if necessary , decisions can be promptly made on whether or not measures should be taken to support or secure proﬁtability . The recoverable amounts of investments in asso-ciated companies are also regularly monitored . Annual Report 2022 | Daimler Truck 148B | Combined Management Report with Non-Financial Statement of the Group | Risk and Opportunity ReportViolations of regulations on anti-corruption , antitrust law , sanc-tions , export control , anti-money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing , product requirements , data protection and the han-dling of hazardous goods are sanctioned , e.g . with regulatory ﬁnes or criminal consequences . In addition , any violation can lead to negative media coverage and aﬀect the Group ’ s reputa-tion . Risks from legal proceedingsThe subsidiaries of Daimler Truck Holding AG ( especially Daimler Truck AG ) are confronted with various legal proceed-ings , claims as well as governmental investigations and orders ( legal proceedings ) on a large number of topics . These include , for example , vehicle conformity and vehicle safety , dealer , sup-plier and other contractual relationships , ﬁnancial services , industrial property rights ( in particular patent infringement suits ) , warranty claims , and antitrust proceedings ( including claims for damages ) . If the outcome of such legal proceedings is negative for the Daimler Truck Group or such proceedings are settled , the Group may be required to pay substantial com-pensatory and punitive damages or to undertake service actions , recall campaigns , monetary penalties or other costly actions . Legal proceedings and related settlements may have an impact on the Group ’ s reputation.Antitrust law proceedings ( including actions for damages ) Mercedes-Benz Group AG , under the former name Daimler AG the former parent entity of Daimler Truck AG , was subject to an antitrust proceeding initiated by the European Commission . In July 2016 , the European Commission issued a settlement decision against the former Daimler AG and four other Euro-pean truck manufacturers for their participation in anti-com-petitive behavior in violation of European antitrust rules with regard to pricing and passing on the costs of compliance with strict emission rules for trucks . The European Commission found that Daimler AG participated in the relevant arrange-ments from January 17 , 1997 to January 18 , 2011 . The individual ﬁne imposed on Daimler AG by the European Commission ’ s settlement decision amounted to €1.09 billion and was fully paid in 2016.Following the settlement decision by the European Commis-sion , legal actions , class actions and other forms of legal redress for damages by direct and indirect truck customers have been ﬁled or initiated in several jurisdictions . Damage claims could result in substantial liabilities for the Daimler Truck Group as well as signiﬁcant costs expended for defense measures , which may have a material adverse eﬀect on the Daimler Truck Group ’ s operations and its liquidity and capital resources.In relation to the cartel infringement described above , most substantial claims ( including certain types of class actions or aggregator claims ) are pending or have been initiated in Ger-many , the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and Spain . Claims are also pending in certain other European countries and in Israel ( in a total of approximately 20 countries ) .The Daimler Truck Group takes appropriate legal remedies to defend itself.It can not be ruled out that the regulatory risks and risks from legal proceedings discussed above , individually or in the aggre-gate , may materially adversely impact the proﬁtability , liquidity and capital resources and ﬁnancial position of the Group or any of its segments.As legal proceedings are fraught with a large degree of uncer-tainty , it is possible that a/fter their ﬁnal resolution , some of the provisions that have been recognized for them could prove to be insuﬃcient . As a result , substantial additional expenditures may arise . This also applies to legal proceedings for which the Group has seen no requirement to recognize a provision.Although the ﬁnal result of any such litigation may inﬂuence the Group ’ s earnings and cash ﬂows in any particular period , the Group believes that any resulting obligations are unlikely to have a sustained eﬀect on the Group ’ s ﬁnancial position.Further information on legal proceedings is provided in E/uni00A0Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements .