
Deutsche Börse: 
Relevance of ESG regulation on business risks
The Group Risk Committee carries out a process to review the relevance of environmental, social and
governance risks. The entries in the risk maps are labelled accordingly (E, S, G risk map items).
In the field of ongoing environmental, social and governance regulation, combined with efforts to im-
prove economic resilience, there are a number of potential risks for our data, derivatives and index busi-
ness, particularly in view of the current geopolitical tension and economic volatility. If less ambitious
sustainability policies lead to reduced investment in ESG products and to changes in investor prefer-
ences, then demand for our range of ESG products and services could decline or shift. A proposal for Eu-
ropean legislation to regulate ESG data and ratings providers is also expected in 2023. The latter could
have an adverse impact on Institutional Shareholder Services, Inc. if the proposal includes a standardi-
sation of methodologies for ESG ratings, and also affect other business units indirectly, such as our index
business. In addition, if ESG regulation in the field of sustainability standards and labels is deficient or
too prescriptive, this could cause problems and uncertainty concerning its legal status, as well as a loss
of market confidence. A decline in confidence in such standards and labels may have an adverse impact
on our ESG products across all business units, while an excessively prescriptive approach could inhibit
innovation and growth in the ESG segment of our data, derivatives and index business, as well as in the
market overall.
If it is no longer possible to allocate capital efficiently to sustainable investments, or the calibration of
sustainability policies and ESG regulation is not successful, this could impair the maturity, quality and
liquidity of the market, the marketability and pricing of products, and risk management. Risks could also
result from a lack of interoperability between European ESG regulation and global developments. Busi-
ness risks could also be increased by far-reaching due-diligence obligations in supply and value chains,
and so represent revenue risks.
The Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) regularly considers whether to classify Deutsche
Börse AG as a financial holding company. It has currently come to the conclusion that Deutsche Börse
AG is not a financial holding company. Classification as a financial holding company could have an im-
pact on our capital requirements.
Compliance – including measures against corruption and bribery
Responsible business operations imply adherence to laws and regulations; they and are also based on
the principle of integrity and ethically irreproachable conduct at all times. We have implemented a com-
pliance management system (CMS) based on regulatory requirements, which aims to prevent miscon-
duct and avoid liability and reputational risks for the Deutsche Börse Group, its legal representatives, ex-
ecutives and staff. Beyond business-related and regulatory compliance requirements, the focus is on
strengthening a uniform compliance culture throughout the Group, especially with a view to enhancing
compliance awareness.
79 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Risk management
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Code of business conduct
Our Group’s code of business conduct summarises the most important aspects with regard to corporate
ethics and compliance as well as appropriate conduct. It is communicated to all employees in the Group
and is available on the internet and intranet sites. Our code of business conduct summarises our core
values and principles, which are intended to act as support for decision-making and enforce market in-
tegrity, transparency, efficiency and security. Moreover, Group Compliance provides employees with com-
pliance-relevant information via the corresponding intranet pages, unless this is not possible for particu-
lar confidentiality reasons. For details regarding the principles of responsible corporate governance, see
the section “Corporate governance statement”.
As a member of the UN Global Compact we are committed to its principles, notably to support human
and labour rights, to protect the environment and to work against corruption in all its forms, which in-
cludes extortion and bribery. These principles are also an integral part of our code of business conduct,
which also prohibits any involvement in corruption or any activities which may lead to the impression
that the Group promises, arranges, provides, receives or asks for unlawful benefits. Bribery and facilita-
tion payments are prohibited.
Objectivity and integrity are the guiding principles for employees of Deutsche Börse Group. Our manage-
ment is fully aware of their function as role models and the importance of the meaning “tone from the
top”, which makes it possible to draw the attention of every individual employee towards managing
compliance risks, both within the Group and among market participants. In order to sustainably anchor
these guiding principles, and to prevent the Group and its staff from legal sanctions and reputational
damage, Group Compliance has implemented risk-based compliance and preventive measures.
Compliance management system
The compliance management system – under the responsibility of, and promoted by, the Executive
Board of Deutsche Börse AG – therefore constitutes an indispensable element of good corporate govern-
ance with respect to compliance. Group Compliance manages the CMS as a second line of defence func-
tion and ensures compliance with legislation, regulations and internal rules, and promotes best practice
within the Group. In addition, Group Compliance monitors, verifies and implements compliance
measures to mitigate risks with negative impacts (e.g. direct or indirect financial losses, regulatory pen-
alties or reputational damage). Such a CMS provides the foundation for sustainable risk transparency;
specifically, it facilitates the mitigation of compliance risks in the areas of money laundering/terrorism
financing, criminal offences, data protection, corruption, market manipulation, conflicts of interest and
insider trading, as well as monitoring of requirements concerning financial sanctions and embargoes.
2)
The CMS applies to Deutsche Börse AG and to the subsidiaries in Germany and abroad in which we
hold a majority interest. Our Group-wide compliance approach is intended to ensure that our Group
companies respect applicable legislation and regulatory requirements.

The CMS is assessed at least once a year using relevant criteria to ensure it is appropriate and effective,
and a report is presented to the Audit Committee of Deutsche Börse AG’s Supervisory Board. The criteria
include i.a. the evaluation of compliance policies and frameworks, risk analyses, controls, training and
the regular reporting. In addition, risk-based internal and external audits are performed to validate the
CMS.
To ensure that the CMS is appropriate and effective, and to reflect increasing complexity and growing
regulatory demands, the CMS is regularly enhanced and improved. Our compliance measures enable us
to identify, measure and manage compliance risks, particularly in the fields of money-laundering/ terror-
ism financing, criminal offences, data protection, corruption, market manipulation, conflicts of interest,
insider trading, financial sanctions and embargoes.
When determining the focus and improvements of the CMS, we are guided by applicable prudential leg-
islation and regulatory requirements, as well as by the recommendations of internationally accepted
standards. Based on these standards, Group Compliance identifies fields of action and measures to con-
tinuously adapt the CMS to changing requirements.
Currently, Group Compliance is implementing the function of a Human Rights Officer to ensure that the
requirements of the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence in Supply Chains are met.
Compliance organisational structure
The Group Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG. Com-
pliance reporting comprises the relevant compliance risks in the context of the compliance mandate, as
well as other compliance-relevant information and activities. The Chief Compliance Officers from group
companies that are covered by banking regulation have functional reporting lines to the Group Chief
Compliance Officer. The same applies to the Chief Compliance Officers of Qontigo, ECC/EEX and 360T.
ISS is regulated by the US Investment Advisers Act and has therefore set up a compliance function in
accordance with the statutory requirements and designated a Chief Compliance Officer. In view of the
decision to manage ISS at arm’s length, however, there is currently no functional reporting line to the
Chief Compliance Officer of the Group. In the course of implementing a group-wide compliance ap-
proach, the implementation of the compliance group standards is still being pursued at ISS.
The Group Compliance Committee is an interdisciplinary committee at management level that aims to
support and advise the respective Executive Boards and Compliance functions within Deutsche Börse
Group on compliance topics. Committee members are the senior managers of the business units, the
Chief Compliance Officers of group companies and representatives of the relevant control functions.
Group Compliance also informs the committee about important compliance topics and incidents, as well
as potential trends and regulatory developments.
81 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Risk management
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Compliance measures
Compliance2)rules
Group Compliance sets standards for the key compliance risks affecting all entities within the Group. In
this context, Group Compliance devises risk-oriented measures in order to mitigate and manage identi-
fied risks; communicates about risks and incidents as well as the effectiveness of the measures taken.
Further Group Compliance ensures the continuous improvement of the CMS by regular adjustments to
the relevant internal policies and processes.
The group-wide applicable compliance policies have been implemented to ensure that the internal stake-
holder groups and employees acting on behalf of the Group implement and follow its rules and require-
ments. In this way, group-wide compliance violations shall be addressed preventively, detectively, and
sanctionally. Group-wide communications via the intranet are geared towards providing employees (in-
cluding members of the Executive Board and managers) with the necessary guidance for their daily work
and ensuring compliance.
Compliance training
Regular compliance trainings are a fundamental instrument for promoting the compliance culture and
compliance awareness across the Group. Our employees around the world are trained regularly on the
relevant compliance topics. Our compliance trainings particularly cover the topics of money-laundering/
terrorism financing, criminal offences, ethics, data protection, corruption, market manipulation, conflicts
of interest, insider trading, financial sanctions and embargoes. Our management, that is exposed to a
higher compliance risk by virtue of their work receive additional training as required. Participation in
above mentioned trainings is mandatory for our employees, as well as for management.
Whistleblowing2)system
We support, by lived compliance awareness, an open approach towards managing misconduct. For this
reason, employees are encouraged to address their concerns directly to the responsible line manager, HR
or to Group Compliance. Deutsche Börse Group’s whistleblowing system (BKMS) offers an additional
and anonymous channel for reporting potential or confirmed breaches of prudential or regulatory require-
ment and ethical standards. Employees, service providers and third parties can submit reports via tele-
phone or e-mail. The anonymity of whistleblowers is guaranteed at all times.
Analysis of compliance risks
In line with regulatory requirements, we carry out risk analyses regularly and, if needed, on an ad hoc
basis in order to be able to understand and assess relevant compliance risks and to derive risk mitigating
measures based on the results. Such risk analyses and assessments comprise the Group’s own business
activities as well as business relationships, market participants, products and services.
A Group-wide compliance risk assessment framework was implemented last year to standardise the pro-
cess of identifying, analysing and assessing compliance risks within the Deutsche Börse Group. The de-
veloped methodology is to be applied for the first time in 2023.
82 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Risk management
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
In the context of the current geopolitical events in Ukraine and the resulting potential economic policy
consequences, Group Compliance continues to analyse which risks could have an impact in the individ-
ual business areas and which measures need to be taken and implemented. This concerns all risks for
Group companies that have business relationships with companies based in the affected countries
(Ukraine, Russia), hold assets or have other connections of both an economic and technical nature. The
Group has implemented a robust and flexible system to manage any sanctions and embargo risks. Dedi-
cated sanctions experts monitor current developments carefully and are in regular contact with stake-
holders and the business areas of the Deutsche Börse Group in order to be able to react to restrictions in
a timely manner.

Number of justified customer complaints relating to data protection 0 0
1) All employees of Deutsche Börse Group must repeat the web-based ABC training every two years. Since the update and completion of the training takes place in
odd years, the number of completed trainings in the even year 2022 is significantly lower.
Regulatory capital requirements and regulatory capital ratios
Clearstream Banking S.A., Clearstream Banking AG and Eurex Clearing AG, in their capacity as credit
institutions, are subject to solvency supervision by the German or Luxembourg banking supervisory au-
thorities (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin, and Commission de Surveillance du
Secteur Financier, CSSF, respectively). The same applies to the Clearstream Holding at a regulatory
group level. Eurex Repo GmbH and 360 Treasury Systems AG are also subject to specific provisions ap-
plicable to investment firms.
Nodal Clear, LLC is a Derivatives Clearing Organisation (DCO) subject to regulation by the US Commod-
ity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).
Crypto Finance (Brokerage) AG is authorised as securities firm according to Article 41 of the Swiss Fed-
eral Act on Financial Institutions (FinIA) while Crypto Finance (Asset Management) AG is authorised as
manager of collective investments according to the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Act (CISA).
Both are subject to the supervision by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA).
Market risk exposure only results from relatively small open foreign currency positions.
The following table shows the regulatory own funds requirements per risk category which are derived
from the risk exposure amount with a capital ratio of 8%.

1) Clearstream Banking AG’s previous year’s figures were updated based on the previous-year’s audited financial statements.
No capital contributions were made in 2022, but they are planned for the years ahead in order to
strengthen the capital base. In February 2023, Clearstream Banking AG carried out a capital injection of
€30.0 million. The reason for the strengthening of the capital base is primarily a change in the interpre-
tation of capital requirements by the supervisory authorities.
Regulatory capital ratios according to CRR

1) Clearstream Banking AG’s previous year’s figures were updated based on the previous-year’s audited financial statements.
2) According to Art. 26 Abs. 1 (a) CRR, capitel insturments must comply with the requirements pursuant to Art. 28 CRR. As of 31 December 2021, the profit and loss
transfer agreement between Eurex Clearing AG and Eurex Frankfurt AG did not comply with the discretion under Art. 28 (3) (d) CRR. Therefore, the regulatory own funds
were reduced subsequently as per 31 December 2021 to the amount of subscribed capital of €25.0 million. Furthermore, previous year’s own funds requirements were
adjusted.
Clearstream Banking AG’s capital requirements according to CSDR are currently significantly above CRR
and CRD IV capital requirements. The capital requirements under Article 47 CSDR do not stipulate a
specific ratio. Instead, the total of share capital and reserves is compared with the capital requirements
and has to be at least the same.
84 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Risk management
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Capital adequacy requirements under CSDR


1) As the annual financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG and Deutsche Börse Group are published prior to the finalization of Clearstream Banking S.A.'s and Clear-
stream Banking AG's approved annual financial statements, the calculation of the other CSDR capital requirements have been based on the previous year’s ap-
proved annual financial statements.
Capital adequacy requirements under EMIR
European Commodity Clearing

1) Previous year adjusted
The Investment Firm Regulation requires 360 Treasury Systems AG as an investment firm of category 2
to hold own funds of the higher of a) 25 per cent of the fixed overheads, b) a fixed minimum initial capi-
tal requirement of the entity or c) the capital requirements calculated based on the K factors. Eurex Repo
GmbH determines its own funds requirements according to its classification as small and non-intercon-
nected investment firm based on the higher of a) or b) as described above. The capital requirement for
360T and also for the Eurex Repo currently corresponds to 25 per cent of the respective fixed overheads
of the previous year.
Composition of own funds/capital requirements

1) According to Art. 26 Abs. 1 (a) CRR, capital instruments must comply with the requirements pursuant to Art. 28 CRR. As of 31 December 2021, the profit and loss
transfer agreement between Eurex Clearing AG and Eurex Frankfurt AG did not comply with the discretion under Art. 28 (3) (d) CRR. Therefore, the regulatory own funds
were reduced subsequently as per 31 December 2021 to the amount of subscribed capital of €25.0 million. Furthermore, previous year’s own funds requirements were
adjusted.
Compliance with own funds requirements

The regulatory minimum requirements were complied with at all times by all companies during the re-
porting period and in the period up to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.2)2)
86 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Risk management
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Overall assessment of the risk situation by the Executive Board
Summary
The risk profile of Deutsche Börse Group did not change significantly in the 2022 financial year. All
known impacts of the geopolitical and macroeconomic developments were actively managed within the
Group and potential new risks were analysed on an ongoing basis. The aggregate total risk of Deutsche
Börse Group comprising of all risk types (operational, financial, pension and business risk) was always
matched by sufficient covered funds. As of 31 December 2022, Deutsche Börse Group’s required eco-
nomic capital (REC) amounted to €1,754 million, an almost 4 per cent decline year on year (31 De-
cember 2021: €1,827 million, measured with a 99.9 per cent confidence level). It is covered by a risk-
bearing capacity of €7,742 million.
No significant change in the risk situation of the Group is foreseeable for the Executive Board at the pre-
sent time.
Outlook
Deutsche Börse Group continually assesses its risk situation. Based on the calculated REC in stress tests
and based on the risk management system, Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board concludes that the
available risk cover amount and the available liquidity are sufficient. There is currently no indication that
the risk coverage amount has to be adjusted for 2023. Furthermore, it cannot identify any risk that
would endanger the Group’s existence as a going concern.
In 2023 we intend to continue strengthening and expanding its risk management and internal control
system (ICS). This includes, for example, the expansion of information security management, ongoing
methodological improvements in risk management and the ICS, and a closer coordination between con-
trol functions, also by means of a Groupwide governance, risk and compliance tool.
87 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Report on expected developments
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
In addition, on 9 February 2023, we announced a new strategic partnership with Google Cloud to en-
hance, economize and concentrate Deutsche Börse Group’s cloud adoption. Google Cloud will become
our preferred partner for the next ten years and help to further enhance the group’s cloud adoption and
efficiency. Specifically, we will leverage Google Cloud’s secure infrastructure and leading data and analyt-
ics capabilities to accelerate the development of our digital securities platform D7, innovate our digital
asset market operations, and enhance our data distribution and data use cases in the cloud.
As already stated, distributed ledger technology (DLT) represents another technological opportunity. It is
considered a disruptive technology at times – but at present, the financial services sector is increasingly
exploring its opportunities. Thanks to its decentralised nature, it facilitates direct interaction between par-
ticipants, thus offering the potential for simplifying complex processes. Established market infrastructure
providers such as Deutsche Börse Group, which covers the entire value creation chain from a single
source, play an important role when it comes to tapping this potential – meeting existing industry stand-
ards at the same time. Besides legal and regulatory requirements, this also involves adhering to security
standards, as well as limiting risks and ensuring cost efficiency. This enables, e.g., the development of
digital issuance of financial products via the D7 platform which shortens the extensive and multi-day is-
suance process to just a few minutes. The enhancement of D7 platform with decentral capabilities, in
line with the respective regulations and market interest, could complement the offer in further jurisdic-
tions. Like this, the central securities depository is creating a fully digital alternative to conventional se-
curities issuance. Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) is the first issuer to have launched a digital fixed-
income bond in the form of central register security based on the German Electronic Securities Act
(eWpG) in December 2022.
M&A growth opportunities2)
Inorganic growth is an equally important part of Compass 2023. We focus on areas that are closely re-
lated to our strategic growth areas, which include the data, index and analytics business, ESG, commod-
ities, forex trading, fixed income trading and investment fund services. The aim is to accelerate growth in
these areas by means of mergers and acquisitions and make our businesses even more scalable.
11. Report on expected developments
The forecast describes our expected performance in the 2023 financial year. It contains statements and
information on events in the future and is based on the company’s expectations and assumptions at the
time of publication of this corporate report. In turn, these are subject to known and unknown opportuni-
ties, risks and uncertainties. Numerous factors, many of which are outside the company’s control, influ-
ence the Group’s success, its business strategy and its financial results. Should opportunities, risks or
uncertainties materialise, or should one of the assumptions made turn out to be incorrect, the Group’s
actual performance could deviate either positively or negatively from the expectations and assumptions
contained in the forward-looking statements and information contained in this report on expected devel-
opments.
91 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Report on expected developments
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Developments in the operating environment
Macroeconomic environment
Economic growth slowed significantly over the course of 2022. This was due partly to the macroeco-
nomic effects of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine. High inflation rates and risks to energy sup-
plies also played a role. In the forecast period we expect a further deterioration in the conditions for eco-
nomic growth. An end to the war in Ukraine, a sustainable solution for energy supplies or looser
monetary policy by central banks as a result of lower inflation rates could have a positive impact on fu-
ture economic performance, however.
Future development of results of operations
Given our diversified business model and multiple sources of revenue, and despite the tense macroeco-
nomic environment, we believe we are very well positioned to further improve our earnings in the me-
dium and long term. This expectation is based partly on the secular growth opportunities that we intend
to exploit (for details, see the “Report on opportunities”), as well as on additional forecast inorganic
growth.
In line with our strategy, we assume that net revenue will increase by at least 5 per cent in the forecast
period on the basis of secular growth opportunities. We are driving this growth through investment. By
doing so, we aim to shift further market share from over-the-counter trading and clearing to the on-ex-
change segment and to further expand our positions in existing asset classes by introducing new prod-
ucts and functionalities and acquiring new customers. Thanks to the very good cyclical performance in
2022, higher market volatility and rising interest rates, we assume that the cyclical net revenue contri-
bution will either be only slightly positive or even negative in the forecast period. This depends largely on
future changes in market volatility and interest rates, particularly with regard to net interest income from
banking business. In total, we therefore anticipate net revenue in the €4.5–4.7 billion range for the fore-
cast period.
Within the context of our growth strategy, we pursue clearly defined principles for managing operating
costs. We achieve the necessary flexibility largely by making continuous improvements to our operating
processes. This enables us to manage operating costs partly in line with net revenue growth. In the fore-
cast period, we expect earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) to increase
to €2.6–2.8 billion.
Forecast for results of operations 2023
Basis 2022 Forecast 2023
€m €bn
Net revenue 4,337.6 4.5–4.7
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 2,525.6 2.6–2.8
92 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Report on expected developments
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Development of non-financial performance indicators
Initiatives to promote the transparency and security of the markets will continue to be a key focus during
the forecast period, ensuring that we add value for society. As far as the forecast development of non-
financial performance indicators for 2023 is concerned, system availability (customer facing IT) was
brought back into line with the high targets by means of additional back-up measures, which became
part of everyday operations. We therefore expect that the system availability (customer facing IT) will re-
main high in the forecast period.
Being an attractive employer is important for our sustained success. We want to attract top talents and
retain them for the long term. The measures described in the chapter “Our employees” put us in a good
position and we are confident that we can maintain or improve on our employee satisfaction of more
than 71.5 per cent.
Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board has defined target quotas for women on the two management lev-
els beneath the Executive Board, in accordance with section 76 (4) of the AktG, in each case referring to
Deutsche Börse AG. By 31 December 2023, the proportion of women holding positions in the first and
second management levels beneath the Executive Board is planned to reach 15 per cent and 27 per
cent, respectively.
Moreover, on a global group level the Executive Board adopted a voluntary commitment to increase the
share of women holding upper management positions to 23 per cent by the end of 2023, and of women
holding lower management positions to 33 per cent during the same period. We have extended the
scope of our voluntary commitment over and above the legal requirements.
The assessment of independent ESG rating agencies is an important benchmark for our ESG efforts. We
continuously analyse our performance and take action accordingly. Over the forecast period we expect
that we will be able to maintain our good position above the 90th percentile of the ESG ratings.
Targets for non-financial key performance indicators 2023
Basis 2022 Target 2023
System availability (customer facing IT) >99.9% >99.5%
Employee satisfaction 73% >71.5%
Women in leadership positions1 23% >23%
ESG ratings 98th percentile >90th percentile
1) Group-wide target in senior management
93 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Report on post-balance sheet date events
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Development of the financial position
We expect that cash flow from operating activities, which is our primary source of financing, will remain
significantly positive in future. We expect that two significant factors will influence changes in liquidity:
Firstly, we plan to invest around €300 million in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at
Group level. These investments will serve primarily to develop new products and services in our growth
areas and to enhance existing ones. Secondly, we will propose a dividend of €3.60 per share to the An-
nual General Meeting to be held in May 2023. This would represent a cash outflow of about
€661,6 million. Apart from the above, we did not expect any other material factors to impact the
Group’s liquidity at the time the combined management report was prepared. As in previous years, we
assume that we will have a sound liquidity base in the forecast period due to positive cash flow from op-
erating activities, adequate credit lines (for details see “note 25 to the consolidated financial state-
ments”), and our flexible management and planning systems.
We generally aim to distribute dividends equivalent to between 40 and 60 per cent of net profit for the
period attributable to the shareholders of Deutsche Börse AG. Within this range, we manage the actual
distribution ratio mainly in relation to our business performance and based on continuity considerations.
In addition, we plan to invest the remaining available funds primarily in the continued inorganic develop-
ment of the Group. Should we be unable to invest these funds, additional distributions, particularly
share buy-backs, represent another opportunity for the use of funds. To maintain its strong credit ratings
at Group level, we aim for a ratio of net debt to EBITDA of no more than 1.75, and a ratio of free funds
from operations to net debt of at least 50 per cent.
Overall assessment by the Executive Board
We believe the Group remains very well positioned in terms of international competition, thanks to its
broadly diversified offering along the securities trading value chain and its innovative strength. This being
the case, we expect to see a positive trend in our results of operations over the long term. Measures
taken as part of our growth strategy should further accelerate this growth. In this context, we aim to be-
come more agile and effective and sharpen our client focus, in order to become the global market infra-
structure provider of choice, with a top ranking in all our business areas. We endeavour to expand our
structural growth areas further, and to increase their contribution to net revenue again by at least 5 per
cent. Taking cyclical effects into account, we are planning an increase in net revenue to €4.5–4.7 billion
in the forecast period. We expect EBITDA to go up to €2.6–2.8 billion in the forecast period. Overall, on
this basis we assume that cash flow from operating activities will be clearly positive and that, as in pre-
vious years, the liquidity base will be sound. The overall assessment by the Executive Board is valid as
at the publication date for this combined management report.
12. Report on post-balance sheet date events
There are no material events to report.
94 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
13. Corporate governance statement
Deutsche Börse Group attaches great importance to the principles of good corporate governance and
control. In this statement, we report on corporate governance at Deutsche Börse AG in accordance with
principle 23 of the Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex (the “Code”, German Corporate Governance
Code). The statement contains the corporate governance statement pursuant to section 315d in conjunc-
tion with section 289f of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB, German Commercial Code).
Declaration of Conformity pursuant to section 161 Aktiengesetz (AktG, German Stock Corporation
Act)
On 7 December 2022, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG issued the fol-
lowing Declaration of Conformity:
“Declaration by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG regarding the Ger-
man Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act
All recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) in the current version dated 28
April 2022, which was published in the Federal Gazette on 27 June 2022, are currently complied with
and shall continue to be complied with in the future.
Since the last declaration of conformity was issued on 8 December 2021, all recommendations of the
GCGC in the version dated 16 December 2019, which was published in the Federal Gazette on 20
March 2020, have also been complied with.
The annual declaration of conformity pursuant to section 161 of the AktG can also be found online at
www.deutsche-boerse.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance > Declaration of Conformity.
The declarations of conformity for the past five years are also available there.
Disclosures on overriding statutory provisions
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG declare in accordance with recom-
mendation F.4 GCGC that recommendation D.4 GCGC was not applicable to the company in 2022 be-
cause of the overriding statutory requirement of section 4 b of the German Stock Exchange Act. Recom-
mendation D.4 GCGC states that the Supervisory Board shall form a Nomination Committee composed
exclusively of shareholder representatives. In accordance with section 4 b of the German Stock Exchange
Act, however, the Nomination Committee also assists the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG in
selecting candidates for the Executive Board. As this task shall not be performed exclusively by share-
holder representatives of the Supervisory Board, and in line with the practice to date, the Nomination
Committee also includes employee representatives.
Disclosures on suggestions of the Code
The GCGC consists of both recommendations (denoted in the text by the use of the word “shall”), which
are reported in the Declaration of Conformity in accordance with section 161 of the AktG, and sugges-
tions (denoted in the text by the use of the word “should”). Deutsche Börse AG fully complies with them.
Publicly available information in accordance with section 289f (2) no. 1a of the HGB
The current remuneration report and the auditors’ statement pursuant to section 162 of the AktG, the
underlying remuneration system pursuant to section 87a (1) and (2) sentence 1 of the AktG as well as
95 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
the latest resolution on remuneration pursuant to section 113 (3) of the AktG are available at
www.deutsche-boerse.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance > Remuneration.
Information on corporate governance practices
Conduct policies
Deutsche Börse Group’s global orientation means that binding policies and standards of conduct must
apply at all of the Group’s locations around the world. Specifically, the main objectives of these princi-
ples for collaboration are to ensure responsibility, respect and mutual esteem. The Group also adheres to
these principles when implementing its business model. Communications with clients, investors, em-
ployees and the general public are based on timely information and transparency. In addition to focusing
on generating profit, Deutsche Börse Group’s business is managed sustainably in accordance with recog-
nised legal, social and ethical standards.
Code of business conduct
Acting responsibly means having values that are shared by all employees throughout the Group.
Deutsche Börse AG therefore has a code of business conduct that is reviewed every year. This docu-
ment, which is adopted by the Executive Board and applies throughout the Group, defines the founda-
tions of key ethical and legal standards, including – but not limited to – the following topics:
3) Compliance with legislation and regulations; whistleblowing
3) Confidentiality and the handling of sensitive information
3) Conflicts of interest
3) Prevention of insider trading and market manipulation; personal account dealings
3) Prevention of corruption
3) Risk management
3) Environmental awareness
3) Equal opportunities and protection against undesirable behaviour
3) Corporate responsibility; human rights; ethical conduct
The code of business conduct applies to members of the Executive Board, all other executives and all
employees of Deutsche Börse Group. In addition to specifying concrete rules, the code of business con-
duct provides general guidance as to how employees can contribute to implementing the defined values
in their everyday working life. The goal of the code of business conduct is to provide guidance on work-
ing together in the company on a day-to-day basis, to help resolve any conflicts and to resolve ethical
and legal challenges. All newly hired employees receive the code of business conduct as part of their
employment contract documentation. The code of business conduct is an integral part of the relationship
between employer and employees at Deutsche Börse Group. Breaches may lead to disciplinary action.
The document is available at www.deutsche-boerse.com > Responsibility > Sustainability > Our em-
ployees > Guiding principles.
Code of conduct for suppliers
Deutsche Börse Group not only requires its management and staff to adhere to high standards – it de-
mands the same from its suppliers and service providers. The code of conduct for suppliers requires
them to respect human rights and environmental regulations and to comply with minimum standards in
these areas. The minimum standards also incorporate the requirements of the German Lieferkettensorg-
faltspflichtengesetz (Supply Chain Due Diligence Act) and the UK Modern Slavery Act. Service providers
and suppliers must sign this code of conduct or enter into an equivalent voluntary commitment before
96 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
they can do business with Deutsche Börse Group. The code of conduct for suppliers is reviewed regu-
larly in the light of current developments and amended if necessary. It can be found at www.deutsche-
boerse.com > Responsibility > Sustainability > Our social environment > Procurement.
Sustainability and values
Deutsche Börse Group’s business activities are based on the legal frameworks and ethical standards of
the different countries in which the Group operates. A key way in which we underscore the values we
consider important for the Deutsche Börse Group is by joining initiatives and organisations that advocate
generally accepted ethical standards. Relevant memberships are as follows:
United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org: this voluntary business initiative estab-
lished by the United Nations aims to achieve a more sustainable and more equitable global economy. At
the heart of the compact are ten principles covering the areas of human rights, labour, environment pro-
tection and anti-corruption. Deutsche Börse Group has submitted annual communications on progress
(COPs) on its implementation of the UN Global Compact since 2009.
Diversity Charter www.charta-der-vielfalt.de: as a signatory to the Diversity Charter, the company has
committed to acknowledging, respecting and promoting the diversity of its workforce, customers and
business associates – irrespective of their age, gender, disability, race, religion, nationality, ethnic back-
ground, sexual orientation or identity.
International Labour Organization www.ilo.org: this UN agency is the international organisation re-
sponsible for drawing up and overseeing international labour standards; it brings together representatives
of governments, employees and employers to promote the joint development of policies and pro-
grammes. Deutsche Börse Group has signed up to the ILO’s labour standards and hence has agreed to
abide by them.
Sustainability in corporate governance
Sustainability is of significant importance for the corporate strategy of Deutsche Börse Group. It is there-
fore an essential element of corporate governance at the level of both the Executive Board and the Super-
visory Board. The Executive Board of Deutsche Börse AG takes all strategic decisions concerning sus-
tainability matters at Deutsche Börse Group. It is supported by the cross-functional Group Sustainability
Board, which is chaired by the CFO. The Group Sustainability Board is the central management board
for sustainability topics in the Deutsche Börse Group. It deals with company initiatives relating to envi-
ronmental, social and governance topics (ESG). One of the Group Sustainability Board’s particular re-
sponsibilities is to ensure that sustainability is incorporated into the company strategy. This includes ad-
vising on and monitoring the integration of sustainability into corporate planning and controlling. The
Group ESG Strategy team, which reports to the CEO, provides support by coordinating overarching ESG
product initiatives, managing the ESG reporting and continuously monitoring the ESG profile and climate
strategy of the Deutsche Börse Group.
At the level of the Supervisory Board the responsibilities of the former Strategy Committee were ex-
panded in 2021 to reflect the strategic importance of sustainability and it was renamed the Strategy and
Sustainability Committee. In addition to embedding ESG in the work of the Supervisory Board in this
way, it is particularly important for the board as a whole and in the other Supervisory Board committees,
especially the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee. Current, relevant
sustainability aspects also form part of the training programme for the Executive Board and Supervisory
Board and are dealt with in workshops and seminars.
97 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
To promote the sustainable development of the Deutsche Börse Group, ESG targets are an integral part
of the remuneration system for the Executive Board. Details of the Executive Board remuneration system
can be found in the “Remuneration report”.
Further information on this subject can be found online at www.deutsche-boerse.com > Responsibil-
ity > Sustainability. More information about the Supervisory Board committee Strategy and Sustainability
can be found in the chapter “Supervisory Board committees”. Details of the work carried out by the
Strategy and Sustainability Committee are included in the “Supervisory Board Report”.
Sector-specific policies
Deutsche Börse Group’s pivotal role in the financial sector requires that it handles information – and es-
pecially sensitive data and facts – responsibly. A number of rules are in force throughout the Group to
ensure that employees comply with this. They comprise both statutory and internal rules that can be
adapted specifically to individual industry segments. They include policies on whistleblowing, risk man-
agement and the internal control system.
Whistleblowing system
Deutsche Börse Group plays an active role in the fight against breaches of rules and regulations. One
example is Deutsche Börse Group’s whistleblowing system, which provides a channel to report non-
compliant behaviour. Deutsche Börse Group uses the Business Keeper Monitoring System (BKMS®), an
online application that enables employees, clients and third parties to report matters that could be crimi-
nal offences and incidents of non-compliance by employees or third parties concerning the business of
Deutsche Börse Group. Reports can be made in their own name or anonymously and can be made
around the clock.
Further information regarding the whistleblowing system can be found at www.deutsche-boerse.com >
Our Company > Contact > Whistleblower system.
Risk and control management policies and principles
Functioning control systems are an important part of stable and sustainable business processes.
Deutsche Börse Group’s enterprise-wide control systems are embedded in an overarching framework.
This comprises, among other things, the legal requirements, the recommendations of the German Corpo-
rate Governance Code, international regulations and recommendations and other company-specific poli-
cies. The executives responsible for the different elements of the control system are in close contact with
each other and with the Executive Board. Key aspects of its design and implementation are also reported
regularly to the Supervisory Board or its committees. Equally, the Group has an enterprise-wide risk
management system that covers and provides mandatory rules for functions, processes and responsibili-
ties. The internal control system and risk management system also cover sustainability-related targets.
Details of the internal control system and risk management at the Deutsche Börse Group can be found in
the “Risk management” section.
From its examination of the internal control and risk management system and the reports of the Internal
Audit function regarding its risk-oriented and process-independent controls conducted, the Executive
Board does not have any indications which would result in reservations regarding the appropriateness
and efficacy of the systems.
98 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Working practices of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
An important fundamental principle of the German Stock Corporation Act is the dual board system –
which assigns separate, independent responsibilities to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
These responsibilities and their implementation at Deutsche Börse AG are set out in detail in the follow-
ing paragraphs.
Both boards perform their duties in the interests of the company and with the aim of achieving a sus-
tainable, long-term increase in value. Their actions are based on the principle of responsible corporate
governance. Therefore, Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board work closely to-
gether in a spirit of mutual trust, with the Executive Board providing the Supervisory Board with compre-
hensive information on the company’s and the Group’s position and the course of business in a regular
and timely manner. In addition, the Executive Board regularly informs the Supervisory Board concerning
issues relating to corporate planning, the risk situation and risk management, compliance and the com-
pany’s control systems. The strategic orientation of the company is examined in detail and agreed upon
with the Supervisory Board. Implementation of the relevant measures is discussed at regular intervals.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Supervisory Board without undue delay, orally or in writing, on
matters that are of special importance to the company.
In addition, the CEO keeps the Chair of the Supervisory Board continuously and regularly informed of the
current developments affecting the company’s business, significant transactions, upcoming decisions
and the long-term outlook and discusses these issues with him or her. The Supervisory Board may also
request reports from the Executive Board at any time, especially on matters and business transactions at
Deutsche Börse AG and subsidiaries that have a significant impact on Deutsche Börse AG’s position. The
Rules of Procedures for the Executive Board and Supervisory Board contain provisions on the corre-
sponding information rights and obligations of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board exceeding
statutory regulations.
Deutsche Börse AG’s Executive Board
The Executive Board manages Deutsche Börse AG and Deutsche Börse Group; it had six members dur-
ing the reporting period. The main duties of the Executive Board include defining the Group’s corporate
goals and sustainable strategic orientation, managing and monitoring the operating units, as well as es-
tablishing and monitoring an efficient risk management system. The Executive Board is responsible for
preparing the annual and consolidated financial statements of Deutsche Börse AG, as well as for produc-
ing financial information during the course of the year. In addition, it must ensure the company’s compli-
ance with legal requirements and official regulations.
The members of the Executive Board are jointly responsible for all aspects of management. Irrespective
of this collective responsibility, the individual members manage the company’s business areas assigned
to them in the Executive Board’s schedule of responsibilities independently and are personally responsi-
ble for them. In addition to the business areas, the functional areas of responsibility are that of the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO), the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the Chief Information Officer/Chief Operating
Officer (CIO/COO) and Governance, People & Culture. The business areas cover the operating business
units, such as the company’s cash market activities, the derivatives business, securities settlement and
custody, fund distribution services as well as the market data, financial and sustainability information
business. For details, see the “Deutsche Börse: Fundamental information about the Group” section and
www.deutsche-boerse.com > Company > Deutsche Börse Group > Business areas.
99 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
Further details of the Executive Board’s work are set out in the bylaws that the Supervisory Board has
adopted for the Executive Board. Among other things, these list issues that are reserved for the entire Ex-
ecutive Board, special measures requiring the approval of the Supervisory Board, other procedural de-
tails and the arrangements for passing resolutions. The Executive Board holds regular meetings; these
are convened by the CEO, who coordinates the Executive Board’s work. Any Executive Board member
can require a meeting to be convened. In accordance with its bylaws, the entire Executive Board nor-
mally takes decisions on the basis of resolutions passed by a simple majority of the members voting on
them in each case. If a vote is tied, the CEO has the casting vote.
More information on the Executive Board, its composition, members’ individual appointments and biog-
raphies can be found at www.deutsche-boerse.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance > Ex-
ecutive Board.
Deutsche Börse AG’s Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Executive Board in its management of the company.
This also covers sustainability matters. The Supervisory Board supports the Executive Board in signifi-
cant business decisions and provides assistance on strategically important issues. In the Rules of Proce-
dures for the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board has defined transactions of fundamental im-
portance which require its approval. In addition, the Supervisory Board is responsible for appointing the
members of the Executive Board, deciding on their total remuneration and examining Deutsche Börse
AG’s annual and consolidated financial statements and the combined management report. Details of the
Supervisory Board’s work during the 2022 financial year can be found in the “Report of the Supervisory
Board”.
The Supervisory Board consists of 16 members, made up of an equal number of shareholder representa-
tives and employee representatives in line with the German Mitbestimmungsgesetz (MitbestG, German
Co-determination Act). The term of office of the current members ends at the Annual General Meeting in
2024. This also applies to an employee representative who was appointed by the court to the Supervi-
sory Board of Deutsche Börse AG in 2022 after the early voluntary retirement of another employee rep-
resentative.
The Supervisory Board holds at least six regular meetings every year. In addition, extraordinary meetings
are held as required. Executive Board members attend the meetings unless the Supervisory Board de-
cides otherwise in any particular case. The Supervisory Board also meets regularly without the Executive
Board. Exchanges also take place as necessary with the annual auditors. The committees also hold reg-
ular meetings. Unless mandatory statutory provisions or the Articles of Associations call for a different
procedure, the Supervisory Board passes its resolutions by a simple majority. If a vote is tied, the Chair
has the casting vote. The work of the Supervisory Board and its Committees is defined by the Rules of
Procedure for the Supervisory Board, which is available under www.deutsche-boerse.com > Investor Re-
lations > Corporate Governance > Supervisory Board > Rules of procedure.
100 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
Further information
The Supervisory Board reviews the knowledge, skill and experience of the Executive Board and Supervi-
sory Board and their members regularly, at least once a year, and examines the structure, size, composi-
tion and performance of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. Its review is based on a catalogue
of specific targets, including qualification requirements, which, in turn, are reviewed regularly by the Su-
pervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also regularly, at least once a year, reviews the effectiveness of
its work, discusses opportunities for improvement and decides on suitable measures if necessary. The
concrete targets are described in the chapter “Targets for composition and qualification requirements of
the Supervisory Board” and the annual effectiveness test is described in the chapter “Examination of the
effectiveness of Supervisory Board work”.
The Chair of the Supervisory Board Chair is in regular contact with the representatives of shareholders
and employees on the Supervisory Board, in addition to the scheduled meetings, and arranges talks to
prepare for the Supervisory Board meetings as necessary.

The Supervisory Board’s goal in establishing committees is to improve the effectiveness of its work by
examining complex matters in smaller groups that prepare them for the plenary meeting of the Supervi-
sory Board. Additionally, the Supervisory Board has delegated individual decision-making powers to the
committees, to the extent that this is legally permissible. The Supervisory Board had seven committees
in the reporting period. The responsibilities of the existing Strategy Committee were expanded in 2021 to
form a Strategy and Sustainability Committee. For details of the committees, please refer to the tables
“Supervisory Board committees in the reporting year: composition and responsibilities”. Their individual
responsibilities are governed by the Supervisory Board’s bylaws. The committees’ rules of procedure cor-
respond to those for the plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board. Details of the current duties and
members of the individual committees can be found online at www.deutsche-boerse.com > Corporate
Governance > Investor Relations > Supervisory Board > Committees.
The chairs of the individual committees report to the plenary meeting about the subjects addressed and
resolutions passed in the committee meetings. Outside the meetings the Chair of the Audit Committee
also reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the full Supervisory Board on her regular exchanges
with the annual auditor. Information on the Supervisory Board’s concrete work and meetings during the
reporting period can be found in the “Report of the Supervisory Board”.
More information on the Supervisory Board and its committees, the individual members and their ap-
pointments and biographies, can be found at: www.deutsche-boerse.com > Corporate Governance >
Investor Relations > Supervisory Board.
101 

Targets for composition and qualification requirements of the Supervisory Board
In accordance with recommendation C.1 GCGC, the Supervisory Board has adopted a catalogue of spe-
cific targets concerning its composition that should serve, above all, as a basis for the nomination of fu-
ture members. The targets include qualification requirements as well as diversity targets. Furthermore,
members shall have sufficient time, as well as the personal integrity and suitability of character, to exer-
cise their office. In addition, more than half the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board
shall be independent. The targets, including the qualification requirements, are reviewed by the Supervi-
sory Board regularly, at least annually, and modified as necessary. The status of implementation can be
seen in the qualification matrix at the end of this statement.
In the reporting year, the Supervisory Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, ex-
panded the specific targets in the qualification requirements explained below to include expertise in sus-
tainability matters, and moreover adapted them to changes in statutory and regulatory requirements. The
Supervisory Board, supported by the Nomination Committee, also examined the targets for the overall
board and for the individual members and confirmed that they had been met.
105 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Management report | Corporate governance statement
Financial statements and notes
Remuneration Report
