  To Our Investors
→ E.ONontheCapitalMarket → CEOLetter → ReportoftheSupervisoryBoard
Corporate Governance
In the declaration of compliance issued at the end of the year, the Supervisory Board and
the Management Board declared that E.ON was in full compliance with the
recommendations of the “Government Commission German Corporate Governance Code‚”
dated December 16, 2019, published by the Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer
Protection in the official section of the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on March 20,
2020, since the last declaration in December 2021.
The Supervisory Board and the Management Board also declared that E.ON has been in full
compliance with the recommendations of the “Government Commission German Corporate
Governance Code‚” dated April 28, 2022, published by the Federal Ministry of Justice and
Consumer Protection in the official section of the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) on June
27, 2022. The current version of the declaration of compliance as well as earlier versions
are published on the Internet at www.eon.com.
In early 2023 the Supervisory Board Chairman held discussions with investors on topics
specific to the Supervisory Board at a corporate governance roadshow.
The Supervisory Board is aware of no indications of conflicts of interest involving members
of the Supervisory Board in the 2022 financial year.
Education and training sessions on selected issues of E.ON’s business were conducted for
Supervisory Board members in the 2022 financial year. The Supervisory Board was given a
practical explanation of the effects of, and defense against, a cyberattack during a visit to
the Cyber Range. In addition, the Supervisory Board was informed about current trends in
corporate governance and their implications for E.ON. At another event, the main
developments and progress in the major digitalization projects at the network business
were presented. The Dutch customer solutions business was described in detail at a
meeting held in the Netherlands. Finally, the challenges arising from demographic
developments on the labor market were the subject of another event.
The targets for the Supervisory Board’s composition, including a competency profile and a
diversity concept, with regard to Recommendation C.1 of the German Corporate
Governance Code and Section 289f, Paragraph 2, Item 6 of the German Commercial Code
and the status of the implementation of the competency profile in the form of a
qualifications matrix are available in the Corporate Governance Declaration.
Committee Work

In 2022 we continued to make eLearning courses available to all
employees and managers Group-wide. They are offered by a variety
of departments. The curriculum’s topics include compliance and
anti-corruption as well as other legal areas such as data protection,
cybersecurity, and human rights. Since 2010 all employees have
had to complete a Code of Conduct eLearning module on a regular
basis. Employees in units without internet access receive this
training in written form and also at a face-to-face event.
Since 2021, new employees must complete a new joiner eLearning
module along with the module on the E.ON Code of Conduct. It
familiarizes them with company rules and whom to contact if they
have questions or feel uncertain about a decision. In addition, new

→ InternalControlSystem → DisclosuresRegardingTakeovers
Governance
Compliance and Anti-corruption
GRI 2-23, GRI 2-26, GRI 3-3, GRI 205
An important objective for E.ON is to prevent, detect, and respond
appropriately to any form of corporate misconduct. customers,
business partners, or other stakeholders should not be deceived,
lied to, or otherwise deliberately harmed. We are committed to
ensuring that laws are strictly obeyed and that integrity and
compliance are systematically promoted as core components of
our corporate culture. This is the only way for us to retain and
deepen our stakeholders’ trust for the long term.
Negligence or deliberate violations could lead to fines and criminal
prosecution for the employees in question and could harm E.ON’s
reputation. Corruption is unacceptable for another reason as well:
it leads to decisions being made for the wrong reasons. It can thus
impede progress and innovation, distort competition and do
lasting damage to E.ON and its stakeholders.
We therefore take potential compliance violations very seriously.
If they are substantiated, we systematically pursue and punish
them. E.ON’s approach to compliance and anti-corruption is
applicable for all business units and Corporate Functions and
extends to suppliers as well. Information on compliance notices
can be found in the “Progress and Measures” section below.
E.ON’s Approach
E.ON is committed to combating corruption in all its
manifestations and supports national and international efforts
directed against it. The Company’s participation in the United
Nations Global Compact underscores its rejection of any form of
corruption. The E.ON Management Board has the ultimate
responsibility for ensuring that E.ON conducts its business legally
and at all times refrains from criminal practices in achieving its
business objectives. To ensure this for all business units, we have
established a central compliance function. Its task is to support
→ ForecastReport → RisksandChancesReport
→ CorporateGovernanceDeclaration
the E.ON Management Board in its responsibility to prevent, detect,
and eliminate corporate crime.
E.ON has in place a compliance management system (“CMS”) to
mitigate the risk of compliance violations. The CMS is based on a
number of widely recognized practices, including measures to foster a
compliance culture and a commitment to compliance targets (see
“Goals and Performance Review”). It also enables us to identify and
analyze compliance risks, design a risk-adequate compliance program,
and expand our compliance organization.
Guidelines and Policies
Both our Code of Conduct and our Supplier Code of Conduct (both of
which are available in the languages of all countries in which we
operate) focus on our guiding principle, “Doing the right thing.” They
provide easy-to-understand guidance for all areas that are relevant to
E.ON. These include human rights, anti-corruption, fair competition,
and compliant relationships with business partners. The E.ON Code of
Conduct also contains an integrity test that employees can use to
check whether they are doing the right thing. All employees are
obligated under their employment contract to act in accordance with
the Code of Conduct’s rules. In addition, ten People Guidelines, which
apply to all business units, explain in detail how employees can be sure
that they are doing things right. Our Code of Conduct is widely
recognized by experts. In 2021, for example, it was awarded the
highest mark among all DAX companies by the quarterly magazine of
BCM, a professional association for compliance managers in Germany.
An important People Guideline that supports the Code of Conduct
addresses anti-corruption. It contains a decision-making scheme that
uses the familiar green, amber, and red of traffic lights to indicate
when accepting or granting offers or gifts is permissible, potentially
problematic, or forbidden. Gratuities (such as donations and
sponsorships) above a certain threshold, which varies by national law,
must be approved by the local Compliance Officer. Particularly strict
requirements apply to invitations and gifts from public, elected, or
government officials and their representatives. The Code of Conduct
clearly states E.ON’s prohibition against company donations to political

managers receive integrity training that helps them fulfil their
function as role models in E.ON’s compliance culture.
E.ON also uses a variety of tools to identify the areas of activity
where the risk for certain compliance breaches is particularly
high. Such compliance risk assessments (“CRAs”) are conducted
on an ongoing basis. CRAs employ various methods, ranging from
spreadsheet-style questionnaires to personal (and confidential, if
applicable) discussions with executives and employees. Based on
the findings, Group Compliance determines whether specific
measures need to be taken to amend and refine the CRAs in order
to appropriately address any (new) potential risks identified.
In addition, Group Compliance continually engages in dialogue
with the compliance officers appointed by local units’
management and monitors their work. If employees suspect
misconduct or a violation of laws or company policies, they are
instructed to report it. For this purpose, they may use—if they
prefer, anonymously—internal reporting channels or an IT-based
whistle-blower hotline. The system is available Group-wide and
can be accessed via the E.ON homepage or by telephone. Not only
E.ON employees, but also business partners, their employees, and
other third parties can contact the hotline confidentially. Group
Compliance forwards the information to the relevant department
or unit.
E.ON wants to ensure that its compliance standards are adhered
to in its supply chain as well. We therefore subject potential
suppliers to a compliance check to assess whether they act in
accordance with our values and principles. To ensure that they
meet our compliance standards, we also conduct a
prequalification process to verify potential suppliers’ identity and
integrity. This includes, for example, determining whether a
supplier appears in the media in connection with compliance
issues such as corruption or on an official sanction and terrorism
lists. In some cases, potential suppliers must also complete a
questionnaire, which E.ON evaluates carefully. Prequalification is
mandatory for all new suppliers. The Human Rights and Supply
→ ForecastReport → RisksandChancesReport
→ CorporateGovernanceDeclaration
Chain Management chapter provides more information on the supplier
onboarding process.
Our Know Your Counterparty (“KYC”) principle also defines minimum
requirements for certain business partners and scenarios, other than
suppliers. The KYC check is an IT-supported workflow that helps us
verify counterparties’ integrity and avoid legal, regulatory, and
reputational risks related to compliance issues such as corruption,
money-laundering, tax evasion, violation of economic sanctions, and
terrorism financing. It is covered in our Know Your Counterparty
People Guideline.
E.ON is a member of a variety of compliance organizations. One
example is the German Institute for Compliance (whose German
acronym is DICO), where E.ON also serves as Vice Chairman of DICO’s
Criminal Law Working Group. DICO’s mission is to promote the role of
compliance and the establishment of recognized compliance standards
in corporate governance in Germany. The institute also serves as a
networking platform for compliance experts in and outside Germany.
In keeping with strong belief that an effective CMS requires an
interdisciplinary approach and an understanding of decision making
within organizations, in 2021 E.ON started a new DICO working group
devoted to behavioral compliance and ethics.
We conducted surveys and intervention studies in the Group in 2022.
They were part of an interdisciplinary project with the Max Weber
Institute for Sociology at Heidelberg University, the Max Planck
Institute for Human Development in Berlin, and its spinoff, Simply
Rational GmbH. One of the topics investigated is how altered situation
assessments (interventions) can influence the acceptance and
efficiency of preventive compliance measures. The findings will be
presented and implemented in 2023.
Goals and Performance Review
We continuously evaluate the CMS’s effectiveness to ensure that E.ON
is able to prevent, detect, and take appropriate remedial action against
illegal or criminal conduct or other rules violations. The CMS's
effectiveness is monitored by the E.ON Management Board, the
 Search Back
worldwide to meet minimum standards in their environmental,
social, and governance (“ESG”) performance, including in relation to
human rights. E.ON procures goods and services almost entirely
from countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (“OECD”). OECD members have shared guiding
principles for human rights, fair work practices, environmental
protection, and anti-corruption. The lack of such shared principles
at companies outside the OECD may increase the risk of practices
or incidents that harm people and the environment. Business with
such companies accounts for less than 6.5 percent of E.ON’s
purchase volume. E.ON assesses its suppliers’ ESG performance
prior to doing business with them and subject suppliers in higher-
risk countries or categories to greater scrutiny. In addition, E.ON
strives to comply with the legal requirements for transparency
along its supply chain, which in many countries are becoming
increasingly more demanding.
E.ON’s Approach
E.ON takes its responsibilities seriously and is therefore committed
to doing business in a compliant way, respecting human rights,
protecting the environment, and ensuring proper work conditions.
E.ON expects that its suppliers are likewise to high ESG standards
and have processes in place to ensure that they do. Engaging in
dialogue with stakeholders and participating in industry initiatives
help E.ON to pay particular attention to human rights issues. For
example, E.ON is a member of econsense, a network of Germany-
based multinational companies dedicated to promoting sustainable
business development and respect for human rights. E.ON also
participates in a working group at the German Compliance Institute
DICO focusing on the same objectives.
E.ON launched a Group-wide human rights due diligence project in
the summer of 2022 to prepare the Company for the requirements
of Germany’s Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. The project was led
by the Group’s Sustainability department. All other affected
departments—such as Supply Chain, Human Resources (“HR”),
Compliance, and Health, Safety, and Environment (“HSE”) —are
To prevent human rights violations, E.ON aims to always adhere
to external standards and for this purpose has its own policies and
guidelines. E.ON’s Code of Conduct (more information can be
found in the Compliance and Anti-corruption chapter) obliges all
employees to contribute to a non-discriminatory and safe work
environment and to respect human rights. E.ON’s Human Rights
Policy Statement was signed by all Management Board members
and published on the E.ON website. The statement acknowledges
the International Bill of Human Rights and the Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International
Labour Organisation (“ILO”) of the United Nations (“UN”) and its
fundamental conventions. It also refers to E.ON's own guidelines,
such as the Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, a People
Guideline provides guidance to employees so that they procure
goods and services in line with E.ON’s ESG standards. The rules
and regulations E.ON follows also include the European
Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the principles
of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”). E.ON has been a
participant in the UNGC since 2005.
The E.ON Supply Chain Function Policy describes the mandate
and organizational setup of the Supply Chain function. The
function encompasses the management of procurement
processes, activities, policies, tools, and supplier relationships for
all units to which the policy applies. In addition, the Function
Policy (in conjunction with the Supply Chain Handbook) defines
Group-wide principles, processes, and responsibilities for non-fuel
procurement by the above-mentioned units. Excluded from this
are the special cases on a specific list (for example energy and fuel
procurement, financial and real estate transactions, insurance,
and taxes).
The standards for human rights, working conditions, environmental
protection, and compliant business practices that E.ON require its
suppliers to meet are defined in the Supplier Code of Conduct, which
was updated in 2020. It applies to all suppliers. The updated version
contains a more detailed description of requirements for corporate
social responsibility (“CSR”), including information about how to
contact E.ON’s whistle-blower hotline. E.ON’s supplier on-boarding
process includes self-registration, a formal agreement to adhere to the
Supplier Code of Conduct, and a compliance check. Non-fuel suppliers
that are not subject to supplier onboarding must agree to E.ON’s
General Terms and Conditions for Purchase Contracts, which are
legally binding. These oblige non-fuel suppliers, among other things, to
comply with the minimum standards of our Supplier Code of Conduct.
› In addition, E.ON has issued a Slavery and Human Trafficking
Statement annually since 2017. It describes the steps E.ON takes to
prevent and combat human rights violations along its supply chain.
E.ON publishes it annually on the Sustainability Channel of E.ON’s
corporate website and on its UK website. ‹
E.ON is committed to procuring the fuel for its biomass-fired assets
responsibly and sustainably. Suppliers of solid biomass must, like non-
fuel suppliers, contractually agree to comply with our Supplier Code of
Conduct. Until March 2023, the E.ON Biomass Purchasing
Amendment from 2010 defined our policies and procedures, which
include risk assessments, supplier audits, and provisions for joint
ventures. Effective March 2023, we redefined the terms for the
purchase of solid biomass for our Energy Infrastructure Solutions
(“EIS”) business and thus replaced the former Biomass Purchasing
Amendment. The purpose of the new rules is to ensure that all units
act in accordance with applicable EU regulations and meet E.ON’s
sustainability standards when procuring and using solid biomass for
their business activities. All biomass suppliers must pledge to respect
human rights, safeguard the general living conditions of persons
affected by biomass production, and protect biodiversity and the
environment.

A first step toward decarbonizing supply chains is to make the
current CO2 emissions of purchased goods and services more
transparent. E.ON therefore conducted a heatmap analysis of the
greenhouse gas emissions in its supply chains. E.ON used third-
party emissions factors and cost-based data to create a CO2
heatmap that gives it a more accurate overview of the climate
footprint of its product and service categories. The Company
intends to build on this in 2023 and derive additional measures for
more transparency. More information on our reduction efforts can
be found in the Climate Protection chapter.
Various regulatory requirements currently oblige companies to
integrate their human rights due diligence into their business and
supply chain. Examples include Germany’s Supply Chain Due
Diligence Act, which came into force on January 1, 2023, as well as
the EU taxonomy and the European Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive (“CSRD”). The latter will apply for the first time
to reporting for the 2024 financial year. E.ON prepared for these
requirements by launching a Group-wide human rights due
diligence project in the summer of 2022. The Sustainability
Department is responsible for the project; it works closely with
Legal, Supply Chain, Group Accounting, HSE, and HR, and is
supported by outside experts. In addition, the Sustainability Council
serves as a steering committee. Since the summer of 2022, E.ON
has examined the status quo of existing processes and measures,
identified gaps, and developed optimization measures. A concept
for conducting a risk analysis was adopted and will be implemented
at E.ON’s operations in 2023. E.ON identified the potential for
minor improvements in matters relating to its supply chain, such as
in the Supplier Code of Conduct and its approach to supplier risk
management, which will likewise be updated in 2023.
E.ON continually improves its eLearning tools for employees, such
as the annual web training module on human rights, compliance,
and cyber and data security, which was updated in September
 
→ InternalControlSystem → DisclosuresRegardingTakeovers
→ ForecastReport → RisksandChancesReport
→ CorporateGovernanceDeclaration
percent of non-fuel purchase orders and call-off contracts had
completed the onboarding process. New suppliers are asked by
the manager responsible for their product or service category to
register using the supplier onboarding solution. Depending on the
transaction volume and HSE risk, suppliers must complete one or
more questionnaires. In certain cases, E.ON may take additional
steps. These include a supplier audit to check whether the
supplier complies with E.ON’s standards for human rights,
working conditions, and environmental protection. E.ON may also
require a supplier to have in place an environmental management
system certified to ISO 14001 or Eco-Management and Audit
Scheme (“EMAS”) III or ISO 45001. Suppliers that participate in
tenders as part of a public procurement act do not use the above-
described process but instead follow the qualification procedures
required under their country’s laws.
Building on the assessment procedures introduced in 2018, in the
year under review E.ON continued to evaluate its suppliers’
performance and, based on the findings, make decisions about its
relationship with them. In addition, E.ON determines annually
which of its non-fuel suppliers it deems important; for this
purpose, E.ON evaluates them on the basis of five KPIs: quality,
commercial aspects, delivery, innovation, and corporate
sustainability, including human rights. E.ON discusses the results
with its suppliers in feedback meetings. During this meeting, E.ON
also decides whether E.ON will require a supplier to take specific
improvement measures if the business relationship is to be
maintained. Due to the crisis situation, E.ON held many additional
discussions with suppliers that were not considered discussions
of their performance.
E.ON also made intranet-based training videos available to
employees. The videos highlight the tangible positive impacts of a
more sustainable supply chain and corresponding individual
purchasing decisions. In addition, E.ON held three information
events called Lunch & Learn, which focused on the environment,
diversity, and occupational health and safety. Furthermore, six
HSE events were held with suppliers in 2022, in part online due to
the pandemic.
A large proportion of our biomass capacity is installed in Sweden.
E.ON Energiinfrastruktur AB operates district heating businesses
in Örebro, Nörrköping, and parts of Stockholm and Malmö. Since
2014, E.ON has assessed the CSR performance of its suppliers
there using a method developed by E.ON Energiinfrastruktur AB.
In addition, key requirements for biomass suppliers—such as the
Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance with the EU Renewable
Energy Directive II ("RED II")—have been integral to contracts with
suppliers since 2021. In 2022 E.ON introduced an expanded in-
house assessment of sustainability-related risks.
Goals and Performance Review

The SVP Group Tax defines E.ON’s tax principles and is responsible
for ensuring that these principles and concomitant procedures are
in place, maintained, and complied with Group-wide. He reports to
the E.ON Supervisory Board’s Audit and Risk Committee on tax-
related issues and risks. In addition, financial tax risks are reported
to Group Controlling and Risk, which examines these risks from a
Group perspective and prepares reports for the consolidated risk
assessment of the E.ON Group. The tax function disseminates
guidelines and policies to ensure tax compliance, including related
tasks, processes, and responsibilities. E.ON has in place tax
compliance management systems according to IDW audit
standard PS 980 at its major operations in Germany. The systems’
purpose is to identify and classify all material tax risks and to map
the findings in a detailed risk control matrix (“RCM”). The RCMs
are continually updated and maintained.
Specific Actions



