To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents Fundamental information about the Group | Economic report | Overall assessment of the business situation | Outlook 􏰁 Opportunities and risk report
We also counteract risks from research and development projects by regularly analyzing and assessing development trends and examining the progress of research projects. Furthermore, we strictly comply with the legal regulations for clinical and chemical-pharmaceutical research and de- velopment.
With IV drugs, it is also crucial that new products are continually brought to the market in a timely manner. Therefore, we monitor the development of new products on the basis of detailed project plans and focus on achieving specific milestones. In this way, we can take countermeas- ures if defined targets are called into question.
Both Fresenius Medical Care and Fresenius Kabi are exposed to typical patent-related risks. These include insuf- ficient protection by patents of the technologies and prod- ucts we develop, which could enable competitors to copy our products without having to bear comparable develop- ment costs.
RISKS IN RELATION TO INCREASING RE􏰂ULATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND FOR COMPLIANCE WITH HUMAN RIGHTS
The increasing sustainability requirements of governments, investors and customers, as well as in the context of financ- ing transactions, could lead to additional costs. The grow- ing requirements and due diligence obligations in the regu- latory environment, as well as the voluntary commitment to our own sustainability and climate protection targets, could lead to additional liability risks. Furthermore, business in- volvement in areas that are the focus of social debate on sustainability can be perceived negatively and trigger nega- tive media attention. This could lead to reputational dam- age and impact the achievement of our business objectives. Since 2017, we have been conducting a comprehensive analysis to identify material issues for Fresenius with
regard to any environmental and social risks as well as re- lated human rights and reputational risks.
RISKS FROM ACQUISITIONS
The acquisition and integration of companies carries risks that can adversely affect the business, financial position, and operational result of Fresenius. Acquisition processes often include closing conditions, including but not limited to antitrust clearance, fulfillment of assurances and warran- ties, and adherence to laws and regulations. Non-compli- ance with such closing conditions by either party to an ac- quisition could lead to litigation between the parties or with others and thus claims against Fresenius.
Following an acquisition, the acquired company’s struc- ture must be integrated while clarifying legal questions and contractual obligations. Marketing, patient services, and lo- gistics must also be unified. During the integration phase, there is the risk that key managers will leave the company and that both the course of ongoing business processes and relationships with customers and employees will be harmed. In addition, change-of-control clauses may be claimed. The integration process may prove more difficult or require more time and resources than expected. Risks can arise from the operations of the newly acquired com- pany that Fresenius regarded as insignificant or was una- ware of. An acquisition may also prove to be less beneficial than initially expected. Future acquisitions may be a strain on the finances and management of our business. Moreo- ver, as a consequence of an acquisition, Fresenius may be- come directly or indirectly liable towards third parties, or claims against third parties may turn out to be non-assertable.
We counter risks from acquisitions by means of structured, detailed due diligence prior to deciding to go ahead with the acquisition and by means of detailed integration plans, as well as with a dedicated integration and project manage- ment process afterward so that countermeasures can be in- itiated in good time if there are deviations from the ex- pected development.
COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL RISKS
Compliance Risks
Fresenius is subject to comprehensive government regula- tion and control in nearly all countries. In addition, Fresenius must comply with general rules of law, which dif- fer from country to country. There could be far-reaching le- gal repercussions or reputation damage should Fresenius fail to comply with these laws or regulations.
We must comply in particular with rules and regulations that monitor the safety and effectiveness of our medical products and services. Corruption is a core risk area across all business segments. Antitrust law, data protection, money laundering, sanctions, and the upholding of human rights are further significant risk areas. It is therefore of particular importance to us that our compliance programs and guidelines are strictly adhered to. Through compli- ance, we aim to meet our own expectations and those of our partners, and to orient our business activities to gener- ally accepted standards and local laws and regulations.
At Fresenius, risk-oriented compliance management systems are implemented in each business segment. These systems take into account the markets in which the respec- tive business segment operates and are tailored to the spe- cific requirements of the business segment. Furthermore, we at Fresenius assess compliance risks using a standard- ized methodology.
99
 Fresenius Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
SEPARATE GROUP NON-FINANCIAL REPORT.
We are committed to being a socially and environ- mentally responsible corporate player in the global healthcare market. We have the ambition to shape future healthcare and build a sound base for sus- tainable growth.
STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT
As a healthcare Group with more than 300,000 employees, Fresenius plays an important role in society. For more than 100 years, our mission has been to preserve life, promote health, and improve patients’ quality of life. The importance of modern and functional healthcare for society again became particularly clear in 2022. Our employees worldwide have continued to work tirelessly and under sometimes
difficult pandemic conditions – in clinics, dialysis centers, factories, and logistics. In acute care, we have reduced the number of intensive care beds and ventilation stations to the pre-pandemic level. The dialysis centers also continued to provide safe treatments, even for kidney patients infected with COVID-19. We have consistently ensured the supply of our vital medicines, medical devices, and services for criti- cally and chronically ill patients.
For Fresenius, economic success is not an end in itself, but a means of continuously contributing to medical prog- ress. The patient’s well-being always comes first. It is our point of reference for all business decisions. The common
goal of all business segments is to improve healthcare quality and efficiency. We aim to provide innovative solutions and work proactively to enable a growing number of people to have access to high-quality, affordable medicine.
In our Code of Conduct, we commit to integrity in dealing with our business associates as well as to socially responsible behavior and transparent communication. The Fresenius Code of Conduct defines basic principles that apply to all employees and the management of the Fresenius Group. It also sets out the framework for the relevant regulations of the individual business segments, and defines
102
    Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
our respective activity areas. Further information can be found in the Compliance and integrity chapter on pages 180 ff.
▶ We take responsibility for our patients’ well-being and are committed to the highest quality in our products, treatments, and services.
▶ We want to do the right thing and comply with all applicable rules and laws. In addition to legal require- ments, we adhere to high ethical standards and rules of good corporate governance.
▶ We largely owe our success and growth to the commit- ment of our more than 300,000 employees worldwide. Our aim is therefore to be perceived as an attractiv employer to acquire talent, retain employees, and allow them to further develop their skills.
▶ We think and act long-term in our business decisions. We protect nature as the basis of life and treat resources with care.
▶ We are committed to respecting human rights as defined by international standards, such as the Declara- tion of Human Rights of the United Nations.
We analyze the impact of our actions with the help of the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A particular focus is on the goals of good health and well- being (SDG 3), high-quality education (SDG 4), and decent work and economic growth (SDG 8). We also align our sus-
tainable actions closely to the United Nations Global Com- pact and the sustainability requirements of the capital market. Further information is available on our website.
THE BUSINESS MODEL
Fresenius is a global healthcare Group and one of the lead- ers in its respective markets. The Fresenius Group com- prises four independently operating business segments managed by Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA: Fresenius Medical Care is the world’s leading provider of products and ser- vices for individuals with renal diseases based on publicly reported revenue and the number of patients. Fresenius Kabi provides lifesaving medicines, medical devices, and services for the critically and chronically ill. Fresenius Helios is Europe’s largest private hospital chain, with clinics in Germany, Spain, and Latin America. Fresenius Vamed specializes in healthcare facilities projects and service business. The Corporate segment comprises the holding functions of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA as well
as Fresenius Digital Technology GmbH, which provides services in the field of information technology. The Group Management Report contains on pages 26 ff. additional information on the Group’s business model and ownership structures, on legal and economic factors, as well as key sales markets and competitive positions.
OUR VALUE CHAIN
Fresenius has an international distribution network and operates more than 90 production facilities. The largest of these are located in the United States, China, Japan, Ger- many, and Sweden. In the Fresenius Group, all purchasing processes are controlled by central coordination points
in the business segments. Competence teams bundle the needs, conclude framework contracts, and continuously monitor current market and price trends. They also coordi- nate global procurement for individual production sites or clinics and initiate quality and safety controls for raw materi- als and procurement goods. Supply reliability and quality of care play an important role in an environment character- ized by ongoing cost-saving efforts by healthcare providers and by price pressure in the markets. We therefore constantly optimize our purchasing processes, standardize procure- ment materials, identify new sources of supply, and negotiate the best possible price deals. Maintaining high flexibility while meeting our strict quality and safety standards is cru- cial. A broad portfolio of suppliers reduces potential pro- curement or raw material shortages in both the product and service business. Additional information is included in the Procurement section of the Group Management Report on page 48.
SUSTAINABILITY RISKS
The identification and assessment of potential sustainability risks (non-financial risks) initially takes place at both the Group level and in the four business segments via the exist- ing risk management system. Sustainability risks are cov- ered by the existing risk catalogs and risk reporting of the
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
103
  Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
Fresenius Group. In the fiscal year 2022, sustainability risks were recorded and assessed in a harmonized approach with the financial, legal, and compliance risks across the Group in the risk management system. At least quarterly, potential sustainability risks are evaluated at Group level by the cor- porate functions Risk Management & Internal Control System, Business Integrity, and Investor Relations & Sustainability of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA, and supplemented if necessary.
In 2022, Fresenius Medical Care mandated an indepen- dent external tax auditor to review the Tax Compliance Management System (Tax CMS) in Germany based on an auditing standard (IDW PS 980) and OECD standards. The audit report confirmed that the company appropriately mitigates tax-related risks.
In the reporting period, we reviewed potential sustain- ability risks in the areas of climate change and water scarcity based on the analysis from the 2021 reporting year. We did not identify any material risks to our business model in the past fiscal year in either area. Additional information can be found in the Environment chapter starting on page 200. Our human rights risk assessment is explained on page 195. Overall, in the reporting period, we did not identify any material non-financial risks, taking into account risk mitigating measures (net risk assessment), related to our own business activities, business relationships, products, or services that are very likely to have an adverse effect on the
non-financial aspects mentioned above or on our business operations. The Group Management Report contains further information on opportunities and risks as well as a detailed presentation of risk management on pages 85 ff.
Due to the international nature of the Group and the broad spectrum of security-related tasks, the Group function Corporate Business Continuity is continuously being developed and assigned additional activities. Today, the func- tion is responsible for corporate security, fire protection, corporate crisis management and travel security worldwide. In addition, those responsible deal with issues relating to maintaining or restarting business operations in or after crisis situations and also provide support in an operational context where necessary. Further information on business continuity is provided in the relevant chapters regarding the business segments.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
AND PROGRAMS
We pursue specific sustainability approaches at the level of the four business segments and Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA. The business segments build their own sustainability pro- grams within the framework provided by the Group Sus- tainability Management and regularly review how they can further develop and optimize them.
In May 2021, the Fresenius Annual General Meeting approved a new compensation system for the members of the Management Board of Fresenius Management SE. In the context of short-term variable compensation, ESG (Environ- mental, Social, and Governance) targets have an influence on compensation in this system, with a weighting of 15%.
The focus of the ESG targets is on the key sustainability topics identified by Fresenius in the materiality analysis: qual-
ity / patient well-being, innovation and digital transformation, employees and diversity, environment, and compliance and integrity. With the identification of key performance indica- tors (KPIs) and the definition of comprehensive management concepts, the company will create a basis to make the sus- tainability performance of the business segments measur- able. The identified KPIs are intended to facilitate target set- ting and measurement in the long term and a selection of these also to be incorporated into the variable compensation of the company’s executives. From 2023, quantitative ESG KPIs will be included in the short-term incentive (STI) of the Management Board, covering the key sustainability topics of medical quality / patient satisfaction, and employees. For the long-term incentive (LTI), the integration of a reduc- tion target for CO2e emissions is planned.
In the reporting year, the members of the Executive Board achieved the ESG targets. A detailed presentation can be found in the Compensation Report starting on page 243 of the Annual Report 2022. The ESG methodology for deter- mining target achievement is available on the website of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA.
For Fresenius Medical Care, the success of global sustainability efforts depends on cooperation between all regions and global functions, and the exchange of best practices. The business segment strives to leverage scale
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
104
  Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
and expertise and takes regional needs into account in its activities. In 2022, Fresenius Medical Care established 10 new global policies and other standards, for example in the areas of diversity, employee engagement, and data protec- tion. It also defined new global performance indicators
for various areas of the sustainability program, including a quality index for patient treatments. The success of the Global Sustainability Program was measured using a con- trol and calculation model that evaluates more than 50 aspects. Throughout the duration of the program, progress was linked with Fresenius Medical Care’s Management Board compensation via a sustainability target.
Based on the results of the Global Sustainability Pro- gram, in 2022, the business segment developed a new set of global targets for the coming years. The Supervisory Board also decided on new sustainability goals for Manage- ment Board compensation in 2023. They are linked to prog- ress of Fresenius Medical Care's sustainability targets in the areas of patient satisfaction, employee satisfaction,
and sustainable products and services.
The image depicts the organizational structure of the Fresenius Group's sustainability organization, illustrating how various governance bodies within the company are structured and interact with each other regarding sustainability initiatives. The diagram is organized horizontally and includes three main levels of governance:

1. **Group Sustainability Board (GSB)**:
   - Chaired by the CEO, this board appears to play a central role in defining and overseeing the group's sustainability strategy. It is likely responsible for high-level decisions and policies regarding sustainability across the company.

2. **Group Management Board**:
   - Also led by the CEO, this board oversees the overall management and operational control of the group. It includes a specific function or sub-department titled "Investor Relations & Sustainability," which coordinates and supports sustainability officers across the company. This suggests a focus on integrating sustainability with broader business objectives and communicating these efforts to investors and external stakeholders.

3. **Supervisory Board**:
   - Supported by an external audit firm, this board is likely responsible for the oversight and audit of sustainability practices, ensuring compliance and effectiveness of the sustainability strategy implemented by the management boards. It is responsible for the audit and reporting components, ensuring accountability and transparency in the company's sustainability endeavors.


To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
Capex
The amounts used to calculate the Capex KPI (denominator) are based on the capital expenditures reported in the con- solidated financial statements resulting from additions in the fiscal year to property, plant and equipment (IAS 16) and other intangible assets (IAS 38) excluding goodwill. In addition, the EU Taxonomy KPI takes into account right-of- use assets (IFRS 16). That also includes the additions from business combinations. This information can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 332, 334 and 363.
For the identification of the EU Taxonomy-eligible share (numerator), the Capex projects of the business segments were examined in more detail on the basis of this definition. This was done by allocating the value-based components to the relevant economic activities from Annex I, essentially the construction of new buildings (7.1), the renovation of buildings (7.2) and, for leasing projects, the acquisition of buildings (7.7). After analyzing the Capex definitions of the EU Taxonomy Regulation, we determined only the Capex associated with the purchase of products and services from
a Taxonomy-eligible economic activity as applicable.
The EU Taxonomy-eligible Capex share 2022 (36.7%) relates to investments of all business segments in new construction and renovation of buildings, such as clinics or production facilities. In 2021, the share was 49%. The decrease in the reporting year is mainly due to two acquisitions of Fresenius Kabi, which disproportionately increase the Capex KPI (denominator). Of the total amount €1,290 million in 2022, €202 million are related to the economic activity construc- tion of new buildings (7.1) and €265 million to renovation of buildings (7.2), consisting entirely of additions to build- ings and additions to assets under construction, and €823 million to right-of-use assets (IFRS 16) and acquisition of buildings (7.7), of which €63 million resulted from business combinations. These EU Taxonomy-eligible economic activi- ties do not currently meet the substantial contribution criteria and are therefore not EU Taxonomy-aligned. For the report- ing year 2022, no further economic activities are applicable, that make a material contribution of at least 1% to the Capex KPI (denominator).
Opex
The amounts used to calculate the Opex KPI (denominator) are based on the direct costs of research and development reported in the consolidated financial statements (Notes, page 325) and the costs of short-term leases (Notes, page 363). In addition, the cost of maintenance and repair including repair materials, were queried from the local Enterprise-Resource-Planning (ERP) systems for all business segments. For the identification of EU taxonomy-eligible shares (numerators), the above line items were matched with the descriptions of economic activities from Annex I. After analyzing the Opex definitions of the EU Taxonomy Regula- tion, we determined only the portion of operating expenses related to the purchase of products and services from a tax- onomy-eligible economic activity to be applicable. As part
of the analysis, we have not identified any material EU Tax- onomy-eligible components that are directly attributable
to relevant economic activities as defined by the EU Taxon- omy. The main expenditures for the maintenance of our building infrastructure are capitalized and are thus reflected in the EU Taxonomy-eligible Capex share.
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor

Strategy and management Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
Within the Fresenius Group Management Board, the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of the business segments are responsible for operational management. The responsibility for quality management and quality assurance is regulated by the respective Management Board committees or man- agements, e. g. via a business allocation plan. The business allocation plan of the Fresenius Group Management Board does not provide for a separate department for this purpose. As part of risk reporting, the Fresenius Group Management Board is informed quarterly about the effectiveness of the quality management systems, i.e. about risks or incidents that could have a significant impact on the operating busi- ness, the reputation or the value chain of the Group and its business segments. The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board is informed of these developments on a quarterly basis, the Supervisory Board on an annual basis. For further information, please refer to page 86 in the Risk Report and page 180 f. in the Group Non-Financial Report, section Compliance.


To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
In the business segments, employees must ensure that the applicable quality and safety regulations are always applied in their areas of responsibility. The employees in the pro- duction facilities, outpatient centers, and hospitals have a special obligation to exercise due care. The organizational structures are adapted to the requirements of the individual business segments.
In the area of quality management, we monitor, manage, and improve processes with performance indicators. Our quality management systems meet and are based on various standards or are adapted to them, because the requirements differ for healthcare facilities and for the development, pro- duction and distribution of pharmaceuticals or even medi- cal-technical products.
We use different applications, such as externally provided IT systems or self-developed applications, to support our quality management systems. All locations are subject to regular, e. g. annual, external and internal audits. Addi- tionally, we carry out peer reviews in our hospitals, if the internal quality targets of a hospital are not met. This is done whenever the evaluation of the quality indicators reveals deviations from the internal targets. The results of these audits or peer reviews for each business segment are pre- sented in the evaluation sections of this chapter.
Training courses for our employees, which are an essential part of guaranteeing the safety of our patients and products, are an important component of our quality management systems.
Further information on employee training can be found in the Employee development section on pages 155 ff.
Policies and regulations
The business segments comply with the applicable laws within the framework of quality management. Internationally applicable frameworks are particularly important for product quality at our production sites and distribution centers and subsequently also for product safety. In our clinics and healthcare facilities, we apply internationally recognized standards from the hospital sector, local- regulatory requirements and laws for the outpatient and inpatient care of patients, e. g. the Fifth Book of the Social Code (SGB V) in Germany, which regulates basic require- ments for quality assurance. We measure the quality of patient care as well as the patient satisfaction with various indicators.
Depending on the business area and market, we are subject to further specific regulatory requirements and stan- dards. This includes legislation on the Registration, Evalua- tion, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH),
the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), and the Medical Device Regulation (MDR), among other standards. In addition, we have to adhere to regulations that specify products used in patient treatments, e. g. product safety pro- visions with regard to hazardous materials in single-use products in hospitals.
In addition, the business segments apply their own comprehensive guidelines, which serve as internal orienta- tion, and which contain concrete instructions for specific processes.
The specific approaches and various measures imple- mented to meet the high requirements for patient and prod- uct safety are described on pages 113 ff.
Certifications and commitment
Our commitment to patients’ health and well-being in the business segments is reviewed and certified by external partners or regulatory bodies. We are continuously expand- ing the number of sites certified to ISO 9001 standard, applicable international acknowledged care or hospital stan- dards, or quality standards provided for centers of exp- ertise for certain areas of treatment. Not all locations have the same scope of certifications 1. However, at the very least they adhere to internal quality standards, which consider the applicable regulatory provisions.
1Coverage at business segment level depends on applicable standards or regulation..
111
Strategy and management Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities | Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
 Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

Fresenius Medical Care’s commitment to continuously improve the quality of care is included in their Code of Eth- ics and Business Conduct. The Global Patient Care Policy outlines the principles, responsibilities, and processes in connection with medical strategy and quality management, patient experience surveys and patient grievance mecha- nisms. Responsibility for integrating the policy into the business operations lies with senior medical leadership and the interdisciplinary patient care teams across the globe.
When it comes to the safety and quality of products and services, the business segment is guided by its Global Quality Policy. This policy also covers the obligation to com- ply with relevant regulations and maintain environmentally sound and efficient operations. It is the basis for regional quality manuals and further policies covering respon- sibilities, training, risk assessments, and audits. Product safety and quality are overseen by the newly established Care Enablement segment, which was implemented on January 1, 2023. The Management Board is regularly infor- med about the global quality and safety performance.
Over the past few years, Fresenius Medical Care has merged the quality management systems in Europe, Middle East, and Africa, as well as in Latin America, and Asia- Pacific.
Fresenius Medical Care continually measures and assesses the quality of the care provided in its dialysis clinics based on internationally recognized quality standards. These include those of the global nonprofit Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) initiative, the U.S. National Kidney Foundation’s Disease Outcomes Quality Ini- tiative (KDOQI), and the European Renal Best Practice guidelines. The business segment also considers indus- try-specific clinical benchmarks and its own quality targets.


To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
Surveillance and reporting systems
Post-market surveillance, or the act of monitoring the prod- ucts that have been released to the market, is an integral part of quality management. It is essential that products and services are effective and reliable, and that they pose as little a risk as possible to patients. Standards for planning, conducting, and monitoring clinical studies help enhance the product quality and safety of products. Should any issue arise concerning the safety of our products, Fresenius Medical Care takes corrective action. This could include pub- lishing further information and data on the product after market introduction, or recalling the product.Fresenius Medical Care strives to comply with legal and regulatory requirements in monitoring the adverse effects of drugs – also called pharmacovigilance – and medical devices. The business segment collects and reviews information relating to adverse events and product complaints.
In addition to experience surveys, Fresenius Medical Care offers further feedback channels. Patients and their representatives can report grievances, make suggestions, or raise concerns anonymously if they wish. Feedback chan- nels include hotlines and email addresses, complaint and suggestion boxes, and a feedback form on the company website. The company’s policies allow patients to file reports without fear of reprisal. Fresenius Medical Care also provides training at the local level to support staff
in following patient grievance guidelines.
Our ambitions
As part of the global patient experience program, Fresenius Medical Care aims to conduct patient experience surveys at least every two years. Fresenius Medical Care aims to achieve an NPS score of at least 70 each year.
Progress and measures in 2022
In the reporting year, Fresenius Medical Care implemented a new global measurement to track quality of care: the quality index. This index reflects the combined results of three equally weighted quality indicators:
▶ Dialysis effectiveness, which measures how sufficiently the body is cleansed of waste substances,
▶ vascular access, which measures the share of patients who do not receive dialysis via a dialysis catheter but rather via safer vascular access alternatives that reduce risk of infection and improve outcomes,
▶ anemia management, which measures hemoglobin levels and specific medications given during dialysis to achieve optimum clinical outcomes, such as overall health and well-being.
The company plans to use the indicator to continuously measure and improve quality of care on a global level. By the end of 2024, the business segment aims to develop and pilot a new global training program to further educate the medical community on quality improvement.
Evaluation
Fresenius Medical Care evaluates medical indicators on an ongoing basis to measure the quality of care provided in its dialysis clinics. The global hospitalization rate measures the length of time a patient spends in hospital. This is an imp- ortant indicator, given that hospitalization has a significant impact on a patient’s clinical outcomes and quality of life. In 2022, the global hospitalization rate was 10.6 days per patient (2021: 10.7).
Fresenius Medical Care measures patient experience in its dialysis clinics using the NPS. The NPS reflects patients’ overall satisfaction with the services and to what extent they feel well cared for and supported. In 2022, the business segment attained an NPS score of 71, the same value as in 2021. The NPS threshold target of at least 70 reflects the com- pany’s aim to continuously obtain excellent scores, and improve patient experience despite challenges such as staff- ing shortages and the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of the NPS calculations, the share of pat- ients is measured that would recommend Fresenius Medical Care. In the reporting year, 78% of the patients answered in the survey that they would highly recommend the ser- vices.
In addition to the NPS, Fresenius Medical Care also tracks survey coverage and response rates. In 2022, a global coverage rate of 92% was achieved in line with the target of 75% or above. The business segment attained a response rate of 69%.
Strategy and management Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety



To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
▶ Compliance Committees which support the Heads of Compliance of the business segments in developing and monitoring the respective compliance management sys- tem. These functions report to the respective business segment management and functionally to the Group Chief Compliance Officer of the Fresenius Group, and
▶ Compliance responsibles in charge of organizational units of the respective segment.
In total, more than 400 employees throughout the Group are responsible for compliance tasks and support Fresenius managers and employees in all compliance-related matters.
The Group function Risk & Integrity of Fresenius
SE & Co. KGaA advises the corporate functions of Fresenius
SE & Co. KGaA, sets minimum standards for the compliance management systems Group-wide, and maintains the Group-wide compliance reporting. Within this Group func- tion, the Group Risk Management department supports the operation of compliance tools and systems as well as the development of training courses.
Risk Steering Committee
The Risk Steering Committee (RSC) is chaired by the Manage- ment Board member responsible for Human Resources (Labor Relations Director), Risk Management and Legal. The RSC is further composed of the Group Chief Compliance Officer, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and the heads of the Legal and Internal Audit departments. If necessary, representatives of other governance departments attend the
meetings of the RSC. The RSC is the advisory body that dis- cusses internal and external developments regarding the risk management and internal control system. This includes dev- elopments relevant for the Compliance Management Sys- tem, as well as important compliance initiatives such as the implementation of the German Act on Corporate Due Dili- gence Obligations in Supply Chains and the revision of the Group’s case management policy in accordance with Euro- pean regulatory requirements. In addition, the RSC advises on significant risks and prepares decision proposals for the Fresenius Management Board. The meetings of the RSC are scheduled every six to eight weeks.
Reporting structure
The business segments have established individual reporting lines to their respective management. The management teams of the business segments receive regular reports on compliance by their Compliance Officers.
Compliance cases are evaluated based on the Group- wide policies. The Group Chief Compliance Officer of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA informs the board member respon- sible for Human Resources (Labor Relations Director), Risk Management and Legal of FMSE about compliance cases of high severity immediately. Both decide whether the respec- tive case needs to be presented to the Management Board of FMSE. The Management Board of FMSE also receives from the Group Chief Compliance Officer of Fresenius
SE & Co. KGaA an annual overview of reported cases by cat- egory and business segment.
In addition to the regular updates in the Risk Steering Committee, the Group Chief Compliance Officer of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA provides the Management Board of FMSE
with a regular comprehensive update of all group-wide Com- pliance initiatives and policies. The Supervisory Boards of both Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA and FMSE are regularly informed about progress of compliance measures, at least once a year, most recently in October 2022.
Best practice exchanges and compliance expert panels
To ensure ethical conduct, we continually review our busi- ness practices and exchange on best practices with our compliance colleagues worldwide. Regular exchanges in cross-divisional expert panels continued to take place in the reporting year. Areas of collaboration included foreign trade law, as well as anti-money laundering, whistleblower protection, and cross-border investigations.
Guidelines and regulations
The Fresenius Code of Conduct forms the framework for all rules applicable in the Fresenius Group. The Code of Con- duct lays out the principles of conduct for all employees, including managers at all levels and members of the Man- agement Board. The Code is aligned with international reg- ulations, as explained below, and was adopted by the Man- agement Board of FMSE. In addition, the four business segments have implemented their own Codes of Conduct, which reflect the Fresenius Code of Conduct principles and are adapted to the individual characteristics of each business segment. The applicable Code of Conduct is part of the employment contracts in almost all business segments and
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
181

Risk assessment and internal controls
The Management Board of FMSE is responsible for the qual- ity and effectiveness of our risk management and internal control system. It is regularly monitored by the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee as well as audited by the Internal Audit department. The findings from these audits are used to continuously advance our risk management and internal con- trol system.
By using standardized methods, we regularly record, ana- lyze, and evaluate compliance risks in each business seg- ment and at Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA. As part of an integrated risk reporting, eleven core Compliance risk subgroups are regularly reported and assessed: Bribery and corruption, fraud and asset misappropriation, antitrust violations, money laundering / terrorism financing, data protection viola- tions, trade restrictions, insider trading /market manipula- tion, compliance culture, retaliation, corporate governance, and human rights violations. In addition to these core compliance risks, the risk assessment also covers other sig- nificant business risks such as information security, environ- mental and occupational safety, quality assurance, and the protection of intellectual property, where the responsibility lies with other functions. The compliance responsibles exch- ange information on key findings from the respective risk assessments, which may result in additional Compliance Risk Subgroups to reflect new risk areas or risk clusters.
The internal control system is an important part of Fresenius’ risk management. In addition to internal controls regarding the financial reporting, it includes control objec- tives for further critical processes, such as quality manage-
ment and patient safety, cybersecurity and data protection, and sustainability. Fresenius has documented relevant criti- cal control objectives in a Group-wide framework, inte- grating the various management systems into the internal control system in a holistic manner.
Dealing with third parties
Our Code of Conduct and the related guidelines for Fresenius Group employees also regulate our relations with business partners and suppliers. We expect them to comply with appli- cable laws and standards as well as ethical standards of conduct in daily business and have specified this in our Fresenius Code of Conduct for Business Partners. Our ambi- tions to avoid corruption and bribery are laid down in our Codes of Conduct. Among other topics, the Codes explicitly prohibit corruption and bribery and oblige our partners to comply with relevant national and international anti-corrup- tion laws. Business segments with significant exposure to the interaction with healthcare professionals have specific rules for these interactions, as explained in the section Transparency in the healthcare sector in this chapter on page 185. In addition to risk-based business partner due dili- gence, we inform our business partners about these require- ments before entering a business relationship. The Codes of Conduct of the Fresenius Group are publicly accessible, for more information see Supply Chain section on pages 196 f.
The design and implementation of our compliance manage- ment systems are based on international regulations and guidelines, such as the ISO standards on the set-up of com- pliance management systems and applicable audit stan- dards of the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany, Incor- porated Association IDW (PS 980). When implementing measures, we take into account the respective national or international legal frameworks.
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor


To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
Money laundering
Business segments within the scope of the Money Launder- ing Act for traders in goods have established appropriate measures to address money laundering risks. These mea- sures include internal controls, such as the prohibition of certain cash payments, as well as risk analysis and review processes for relevant transactions. The controls imple- mented are embedded in policies and appropriate training is provided.
Trade restrictions
To provide people worldwide with access to lifesaving med- icine and medical equipment, Fresenius also supplies prod- ucts to countries that are subject to trade restrictions. How- ever, such deliveries have been exempted from the relevant sanctions and Fresenius expects the scope of the exemption to remain unchanged. It is particularly important to us to comply with all currently applicable legal provisions, e. g., with regard to sanctions or export controls. To this end, we have introduced various measures in the business segments concerned, such as special IT system checks for deliveries that are subject to import or export restrictions. In our cor- porate and business segments we have dedicated experts for trade compliance and a trade compliance program in pla- ce. Regular exchange calls among experts and with the management are held to ensure up-to-date knowledge on trade and economic sanctions. There are also centralized monitoring programs at Fresenius for certain countries sub- ject to applicable sanction programs. The trade compliance program will be continuously updated to reflect the latest
sanctions regulations. We aim to ensure that we can comply with all applicable sanctions and requirements for export controls, even in the event of short-term changes in legisla- tion, such as experienced in 2022. We have no evidence that Fresenius has not complied with applicable sanctions and export control requirements.
Compliance training
Compliance training is a high priority for Fresenius. Our employees are offered training on compliance issues, cover- ing basic topics such as our Code of Conduct and corporate guidelines. Depending on the employee group, more specific topics such as anti-corruption, antitrust law, anti-money- laundering, data protection, and information security are also included – especially for particularly high-risk areas.
To convey the content in a targeted manner, we rely on individual concepts tailored to the respective department and employees. We use various formats such as in-house trai- ning, live webinars, on-demand video training, and tradi- tional online training. Participation in essential basic training, such as on the Code of Conduct, is mandatory. Mandatory e-learnings will be distributed to all employees of the defined target group.
Employees are prompted and reminded to participate in mandatory training courses, for example with automatic registration, or manual registration by compliance depart- ments, human resources, or managers. To promote a risk-conscious and value-oriented corporate culture, we train executives using a dialog-based approach.
Reporting channels and dealing
with potential compliance violations
If Fresenius employees suspect misconduct, e. g., violations of laws, regulations or internal guidelines, they can contact their supervisors or the responsible compliance officers and report the potential compliance incident. They can also report potential compliance incidents anonymously, where legally permitted, e. g., by telephone or online via whis- tleblower systems and e-mail addresses set up specifically for this purpose. All business segments have established appro- priate mechanisms based on the requirements of the UN Gui- ding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP) and the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains. Further, all segments have prepared to comply with the laws implementing the new EU regulation regarding the protection of whistleblowers. The whis- tleblower systems are available via the Fresenius Group web- site and the websites of the business segments not only to employees, but also to third parties, e. g., customers, suppli- ers, and other partners, in a total of more than 30 languages.
We strive to continuously improve our processes and fur- ther optimize the complaint mechanisms. Based on the requirements of the UNGP, the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains, and the European Union Directive on the protection of whistleblowers and their implementation in national law, we have reviewed our sys- tems and processes and adjusted them accordingly. We are therefore convinced that the complaint mechanism of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA in its current form meets the cur- rently applicable requirements. Thus, the business segments
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
184
 Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
observe the developments in this area and adapt their pro- cesses as needed, based on the mentioned legal require- ments and international applicable frameworks. This encom- passes measures to support a culture in which legal and ethical concerns may be communicated without fear of retal- iation. Fresenius Medical Care has an anti-retaliation policy in place to protect employees against any reprisal. Fresenius Kabi has put in place an updated case manage- ment Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which also inclu- des a strict non-retaliation policy.
Incoming reports are treated confidentially as described in the respective guidelines to protect persons reporting. Depending on the severity of the case, the business segments adhere to the reporting structure as outlined on page 181. We take all potential compliance violations seriously. An ini- tial assessment focuses on the plausibility and possible severity level of the potential violation. For this purpose, also ombudsperson panels are set up at Fresenius SE & Co.
KGaA, Fresenius Kabi, Fresenius Helios, and Fresenius Vam- ed. These carry out preliminary assessments of reports received and initiate risk-appropriate investigations of reports on a case-by-case basis. The severity of the compliance violation determines who is responsible for further investiga- tion. If necessary, a dedicated team takes over the investi- gation, which may include internal professionals or external support. Measures are implemented in a timely manner by the responsible management in close cooperation with the
compliance officers. Depending on the type and severity of the misconduct, disciplinary sanctions or remedies under civil or criminal law may be imposed. We take every case of potential misconduct as an opportunity to review our cor- porate processes for improvements. After completion of the investigation, we use the results of internal reviews and reports to review our business processes. We implement cor- rective or improvement measures where necessary to pre- vent similar misconduct in the future. Fresenius Medical Care as well has a defined procedure in which all reported cases of potential misconduct are investigated, individual measures are taken to remedy them, and implementation is tracked. We report the compliance reports received in 2022 in the Evaluation section on page 188.
Transparency in the healthcare sector
In the healthcare sector, transparency is of major importance with regard to business conduct, patient information and quality of care. More information can be found in the Patient and product safety chapter on pages 110 ff.
Fresenius Group companies adhere to laws and our ethical principles that
▶ require us to track and report publicly payments made to healthcare professionals and organizations;
▶ require us to issue written notification or approval and to disclose the purpose and scope of the interaction between a Fresenius Group company and healthcare professionals, such as in healthcare facilities;
▶ require us to publicly disclose data pursued in clinical trials as well as disclose to patients the information
gathered in patient studies. This is linked to the public right to transparency regarding data used to approve new medicines, as well as provisions to adhere to relevant data protection standards; for more information see Data Protection section on pages 189f.;
▶ require transparency in pricing and reimbursement pro- cedures for pharmaceutical products.
We are committed to respecting the codes and principles associated with membership of various associations. In addition, Fresenius Group companies disclose all donations to healthcare professionals in accordance with the publica- tion requirements applicable to them.
PROGRESS AND MEASURES IN 2022
Reporting structure
In order to further foster a functional Group-wide compliance organization, the Management Board of FMSE decided that the compliance professionals will functionally report to the Heads of Compliance of each business segment, effective in 2023. Where such reporting structures have not been estab- lished, they will be initiated. The Heads of Compliance of each segment and the Head of Group Compliance Reporting and Monitoring form the Group Compliance Management Team (GCMT). This expert group sets governance standards for Compliance across Fresenius and supports the effective implementation of the Compliance management system.
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
185
 Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
Continual improvement of the Fresenius compliance program
In 2022, the business segments planned and implemented various compliance initiatives to drive further improvement or to respond to new regulatory requirements. For Fresenius as a Group, a dedicated Human Rights Office has been tasked with coordinating the preparation for the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains. For more information, please refer to the Supply chain section starting on page 196. A revised Group-wide Case Manage- ment SOP will reflect the requirements under the applicable whistleblower protection laws in Europe.
Fresenius Kabi conducted a compliance culture survey and thereby opened another channel for its employees to voice views about the company’s compliance culture, particu- larly in relation to speak up culture, case reporting and case management. The business segment also updated its report- ing categories for its complaint management, offering simpler clusters of violations to potential whistleblowers, that include categories relevant for reporting human rights violations.
Further, new guidelines and regulations within the busi- ness segments were addressed as follows: Fresenius Kabi updated its Code of Conduct in the reporting year, taking into account more recent developments such as anti-money
laundering, sustainability, cybersecurity, social media, envi- ronment, and human rights. The business segment also updated its case management SOP and collateral documen- tation, such as templates for investigation plans and investi- gation reports, to take into account the requirements of the recent legislation updates and to further increase the quality and consistency of case management work across the globe. Fresenius Helios also revised its case management guide- line. All business segments also decided to continue the fur- ther implementation of the Internal Controls Framework.
To support this development of the Fresenius compliance program, focus training topics were set in 2022:
▶ The Group function Risk & Integrity developed and pro- vided various training materials regarding the Code of Conduct, anti-money-laundering, anti-corruption, anti- trust, trade compliance, fraud and internal control sys- tems for all business segments.
▶ Fresenius Kabi continued its intensive efforts to train its personnel on antitrust risks and created a new com- prehensive antitrust training course that has been made available internally on the intranet and was also rolled out as an eLearning to sensitive functions in various lan- guages. Selected groups were additionally trained in web- inar sessions on particular antitrust topics for their area of responsibility. Fresenius Kabi rolled out its global anti- bribery and anti-corruption eLearning again, as a refresher training.
▶ Fresenius Helios offered training courses on fraud and rolled out dedicated trainings on specific aspects of anti-corruption, such as accepting benefits as business employees, donations, granting benefits to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations, and conflicts of interest.
▶ In the reporting year, Helios Spain began preparing additional training courses for the risks identified in the compliance risk assessment in addition to the existing training courses on the Code of Conduct.
▶ Fresenius Vamed focused on data protection, anti-money laundering and trade compliance trainings.
▶ Fresenius Medical Care has its own compliance management system and a correspondingly coordinated training program.
Risk assessment and internal controls
In 2022, the business segments expanded their risk assess- ment processes, which they continued to carry out to include bottom-up information.
We made further improvements within our Group-wide integrated risk management tool to implement applicable regulatory requirements. Risk entries are validated by subject matter experts, i. e. the Compliance function, in order to ensure the consistency and quality of these entries. Risk mitigation plans will be tracked and monitored to ensure
a steady mitigation effect.
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
186
 Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
Due to the constantly changing external and internal require- ments and environment, our risk management and internal control system is being continuously developed. Currently 25 out of 139 control objectives are related to compliance processes, in particular in the areas anti-corruption, trade compliance, anti-money laundering, antitrust/competition compliance. In 2022, the internal control system has been further expanded by the business segments, including structured scoping and performance of control testing.
Dedicated monitoring programs
for trade compliance
Since sanctions have been imposed against certain countries because of the war between Russia and Ukraine, the Man- agement Board of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA has implemented a monitoring mechanism to ensure that trade compliance approvals and the review of business partners are mandatory for each delivery into a country subject to a sanction pro- gram. In addition, automated IT-based checks for each trans- action at Fresenius Kabi are an integral part of the trade compliance program.
Developments in the business partner
due diligence
The business partner due diligence process is being enhanced to achieve more accuracy and efficiency in add- ressing risks with its third parties and integrated the requirements of the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence
Obligations in Supply Chains. Human rights due diligence as one aspect of our overall business partner due diligence enables us to better understand our suppliers and their modus operandi. This way, we monitor potential risks occur- ring from the supply chain while adhering to our commit- ments to conducting business in a responsible manner, to human rights, and to our commitment to compliance and integrity. Further information on human rights due diligence and our 2022 progress can be found in the Supply chain chapter on page 198.
Fresenius Medical Care sharpened its focus on several ongoing compliance initiatives. Prior to entering new busi- ness relationships, and as part of its continuous monitoring of existing business relationships, the company assesses third parties for compliance risks. In 2022, the business seg- ment assessed and approved around 21,000 third parties. In addition, Fresenius Medical Care continued to implement its third-party training approach at global level. Target groups are sales partners, such as distributors, re-sellers, wholesal- ers, commercial or sales agents, and any other third parties involved in the sales of the products that potentially interact with government officials or healthcare professionals. The business segment also conducted 15 anti-corruption-related audits of third-party business partners. 80% of internal audits included a compliance focus.
Fresenius Kabi published its updated SOP and collateral guidelines on Business Partner Due Diligence to enhance and refine its processes and conducted related training for key stakeholders, as well as updated its contractual com- pliance clauses for business partners and suppliers. Further- more, Fresenius Kabi has combined the previously separate
codes for suppliers (Suppliers Code of Conduct) and for business partners (Business Partner Code of Conduct) into a Third-Party Code of Conduct and published it at the end of the year. This also includes the expectations of suppliers and business partners with regards to human rights and environmental standards/duties of care in the supply chain.
EVALUATION
Despite the differences in business and risk profile in each business segment, we strive to uniformly evaluate the design of the compliance management systems on a Group level. In 2022, aspects of the effectiveness of compliance mea- sures were surveyed after the Group function Risk & Integrity department of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA reviewed the matu- rity of the compliance measures of the business segments and Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA for all compliance risk areas by using a harmonized Compliance Management System Reporting methodology. The results were presented to
the Management Board and Supervisory Board.
Audits and inspections
The Internal Audit departments conduct independent audits to improve the effectiveness of the risk management, control and governance processes at Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA and in the business segments. Aspects of compliance and anti-
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
187
 Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report
Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents
MESSAGES BY INPUT CHANNEL
Other 3%
Hotline (phone) 8%
Personal report
(incl. Direct calls) 15%
E-Mail/Letter 27%
Web-based system 47%
external and internal indicators. Fresenius Kabi reviews these key parameters annually and defines monitoring mea- sures for those subsidiaries with an increased risk profile. Fresenius Kabi also conducts regular reviews of compliance initiatives in the form of workshops. Fresenius Kabi’s com- pliance organization organized various international work- shops again in 2022. The workshops not only served as intensive training for local employees, but also enabled com- pliance officers to review and, if necessary, improve their understanding of compliance, the effectiveness of local imple- mentation of internal guidelines, and the development and improvement of central compliance initiatives.
Reports in 2022
In 2022, a total of 375 compliance reports1 were received via the incident databases at Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA, and the business segments Fresenius Kabi, Fresenius Helios, and Fresenius Vamed. They were collected via different input channels as shown in the graph. The compliance reports were principally assigned to the following topic groups: Busi- ness Integrity (88 reports, incl. Anti-Corruption, Antitrust, Anti-Money-Laundering etc.), Data Protection (26 reports), HR / Workplace (155 reports), Misappropriation of Corpo- rate Assets (35 reports, incl. Conflicts of Interest), Account- ing, Auditing and Financial Reporting (8 reports), Environ- ment, Health and Safety (23 reports), and other (40 reports).
We received the most complaints in the area of Business Integrity and workplace-related, in particular, in clinics. Each complaint is reviewed under our case management pro- cesses and, if substantiated, appropriate remedial measures will be taken.
DATA PROTECTION
OUR APPROACH
We bear responsibility in a sensitive environment on which the lives and health of many people depend. Accordingly, we know how to reconcile high quality standards with eco- nomical, IT-supported processes in our regulated markets. In doing so, we are always aware of the increasing sensitiv- ity and need for protection of the data and information we process. In this way, we design efficient processes and create scope for what is really important: the protection and safety of patients.
The Fresenius Group and its operating entities process, e. g. personal and other data of
▶ our patients,
▶ our employees,
▶ customers,
▶ suppliers, and other business partners.
corruption are also taken into account on a risk basis. If weaknesses are identified, Internal Audit monitors the imple- mentation of remediation actions taken by the respective management. In 2022, 21 internal audits with a focus on cor- ruption were conducted at operating sites of the business segments Fresenius Helios, Fresenius Kabi, Fresenius Vamed and Fresenius Corporate. The audit engagement results were analyzed by the compliance organizations and incorpo- rated into the continuous improvement of existing measures. Structural changes of the processes related to the compliance organizations were not required.
At Helios Germany, adherence to the business segment’s transparency regulations is monitored on a random basis
in regular transparency reviews.
With the Compliance Cockpit, Fresenius Kabi has a tool that provides managers of each subsidiary with an annual overview of compliance-relevant key parameters based on
Strategy and management | Well-being of the patient | Digital transformation and innovation | Cybersecurity | Employees | Occupational health and safety
Diversity and equal opportunities Compliance and integrity | Environment | Further key figures | Report profile | Limited assurance report of the independent auditor
1 For Fresenius Medical Care in North America, the hotline system was used for multiple reporting purposes: In addition to the reporting of compliance concerns, reports can also be made on patient care and safety. Therefore, cases from Fresenius Medical Care are not consolidated on a Group level. This leads to a corre- sponding reduction of compliance reports in comparison to the previous year.
188
       Fresenius | Annual Report 2022

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents Corporate Governance Declaration | Further information on Corporate Governance
RELEVANT DISCLOSURES ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES
The general partner, represented by its Management Board, manages the Company’s business with the due care and diligence of a prudent and conscientious company director in compliance with the provisions of the law, the articles
of association, the rules of procedure for the Management Board, the resolutions passed by the full Management Board, and the Supervisory Board of the general partner. The basic rules of corporate conduct, partly extending beyond the requirements of law, are defined in the Fresenius Code of Conduct. It defines the framework of our rules and specifies the key principles for our conduct within the Company and in our relations with external partners and
the public. We have published the Fresenius Code of Con- duct on our website at www.fresenius.com/compliance. In addition, all Fresenius business segments have implemented their own Codes of Conduct. They cover the specifics of their businesses and reflect the values of the Fresenius Code of Conduct.
COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
For Fresenius, compliance means doing the right thing. Because our core ethical values go beyond regulatory requirements, it means acting not only in accordance with the law, but also with applicable industry codes, internal policies, and our values. Compliance is part of our corpo- rate culture and, consequently, our daily work.
Each of our business segments has appointed a Chief Compliance Officer, or a dedicated Compliance function, responsible for overseeing the development, implementation,
and monitoring of the Compliance Management System (CMS) of the business segment. Furthermore, in line with the business structure and organization, the business seg- ments have established compliance responsibilities at the respective organizational levels. The respective compli- ance organization supports management and employees in all compliance-related principles.
Our Compliance Management Systems are designed to achieve the implementation of and adherence to our rules within the Company. We have implemented risk-based Compliance Management Systems in all our business seg- ments and at Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA’s corporate level. They comprise three pillars: Prevent, Detect, and Respond. Emphasis is placed on actively preventing any acts of non- compliance before they occur. Such systems consider the markets Fresenius is operating in. They are tailored to the specific requirements of each business segment.
Essential measures for prevention include comprehen- sive risk recording and risk assessment, effective policies
as well as adequate and effective procedures, regular train- ing, and continuous advice. Through objective indicators, we try to detect potential compliance risks early on. To this end, we have implemented tools for early risk detection and internal control structures, e.g., for cash and bank transac- tions, and monitor these measures regularly in workshops and internal audits.
We take even potential misconduct seriously. This is why Fresenius employees who are aware of potential misconduct, can contact their superior or the responsible compliance function or report a potential compliance case anonymously through whistleblowing systems or dedicated e-mail addresses. Most whistleblowing systems are open
not only to employees, but also to third parties, such as cus- tomers, suppliers, and other partners, via the corporate website in many languages.
Any illegal actions or violations of the rules may harm the individual and Fresenius. We do not tolerate non-com- pliance. If a violation of applicable regulations is detected, we will take the necessary actions to remediate the viola- tion and prevent any recurrence. We also take all reports as an opportunity to review our company processes for possi- ble improvements.
Further information on compliance and the Compliance Management Systems can be found on pages 101 ff. of our Group Non-financial Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEM
In our view, responsible risk management is a crucial element of good corporate governance. Fresenius has a systematic risk management and control system that allows the Manage- ment Board to identify risks and market trends at an early stage and to react promptly to relevant changes in our risk profile. It consists of the following elements:

To our shareholders Group Management Report Group Non-Financial Report Corporate Governance Consolidated financial statements Further information Table of contents Corporate Governance Declaration | Further information on Corporate Governance
The well-being of our patients is important to us. Our risk management and control system, as well as efficiently designed processes, help to enhance the Company’s perfor- mance. Our early risk detection system is reviewed as part
of the annual audit of the financial statements. The auditor assesses whether the monitoring system set up by the Management Board is suitable for the early identification of risks that could jeopardize the Company’s existence. The risk management and control systems are regularly reviewed by the Management Board and the Internal Audit department. The quality and effectiveness of our risk management and control system is the responsibility of the Management Board and is regularly monitored by the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and audited by Internal Audit. Findings from these audits are incorporated into the ongoing development of the risk management and control system.
Further information is available on page 19 of the Report of the Supervisory Board.
In line with the German Corporate Governance Code, our risk management and control system also covers the sustainability-related objectives anchored in our corporate strategy to the extent that this is not already required by law. This includes the processes and systems for record- ing and processing sustainability-related data. Further information (including the description of the main features of the overall internal control system and risk management system recommended by the Code and the statement on the appropriateness and effectiveness of these systems also recommended by the Code) can be found in the Group Management Report on pages 85 ff.
The Internal Audit department supports the Manage- ment Board as an independent function outside the Com- pany’s day-to-day operations. The department assesses internal processes from an objective viewpoint and with the necessary distance. Their goal is to create added value for Fresenius, and thus to help achieve organizational goals through improved internal controls, optimized business processes, and efficiency increases. Results from internal audits are analyzed both by the business segments and by the compliance organization to continuously improve pre- ventive measures, for example to prevent corruption.
Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA has its own inter- nal risk management and control system.
GERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE AND DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY
The German Corporate Governance Code aims to provide more transparency for investors with regard to existing regulations covering the management and monitoring of companies. Our value-enhancing strategies, as well as the majority of the guidelines, recommendations, and sugges- tions for responsible management contained in the Code, have been basic components of our activities for many years. Extensive information on Corporate Governance can be found on our website at www.fresenius.com/ corporate-governance.
The Management Board of the general partner of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA, Fresenius Management SE, and the Supervisory Board of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA have issued the required Declaration of Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of the AktG and have made it available to shareholders on the website of the Company:
“Declaration by the Management Board of the General Partner of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA, Fresenius Management SE, and the Supervisory Board of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA on the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 German Stock Corporation Act (Aktien- gesetz)
The Management Board of the General Partner of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA, Fresenius Management SE (hereafter the Management Board) and the Supervisory Board of Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA declare that since the issuance of the pre- vious Declaration of Conformity in December 2021, the rec- ommendations of the “Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code” published by the Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection (Bundesministerium der Justiz und für Verbraucherschutz) in the official section of the Federal Gazette (Bundes- anzeiger) (hereafter the Code) in the version of December 16, 2019 and April 28, 2022 have been met and that the Code will also be met in the future.
