
Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery
16. The undertaking shall provide information about its system to prevent and detect, investigate, and respond to
allegations or incidents relating to corruption and bribery including the related training.
17. The objective of this Disclosure Requirement is to provide transparency on the key procedures of the undertaking to
prevent, detect, and address allegations about corruption and bribery. This includes the training provided to own
workers and/or information provided internally or to suppliers.
18. The disclosure required under paragraph 16 shall include the following information:
(a) a description of the procedures in place to prevent, detect, and address allegations or incidents of corruption and
bribery;
(b) whether the investigators or investigating committee are separate from the chain of management involved in the
matter; and
(c) the process, if any, to report outcomes to the administrative, management and supervisory bodies.

Disclosure Requirement G1-3 – Prevention and detection of corruption and bribery
AR 4. ‘Functions-at-risk’ means those functions deemed to be at risk of corruption and bribery as a result of its tasks and
responsibilities.
AR 5. Disclosures may include details about the risk assessments and/or mapping, as well as monitoring
programmes and/or internal control procedures performed by the undertaking to detect corruption and bribery.
252/284 
AR 6. The undertaking’s policies on corruption and bribery may be relevant to specific groups of people, either because
they are expected to implement them (for example, the undertaking’s employees, contractors and suppliers), or
because they have a direct interest in their implementation (for example, value chain workers, investors). The
undertaking may disclose the communication tools and channels (e.g., flyers, newsletters, dedicated websites,
social media, face to face interactions, unions and/or workers representatives) to communicate policies to such
groups. This may also include the identification and/or removal of potential barriers to dissemination, such as
through translation into relevant languages or the use of graphic depictions.
AR 7. The undertaking may disclose an analysis of its training activities by, for example, region of training or category of
own workforce where its programmes differ significantly based on such factors and such information would be
useful to users.
AR 8. The undertaking may present the required information about training using the following table:
Anti-corruption and bribery training illustrative example
During the 20XY financial year ABC provided training to its at-risk own workers in terms of its policy (see note x). For those at-risk
functions the training is mandatory, but ABC also made available voluntary training for other own workers.
