To our stakeholders
Heidelberg Materials 2022 7
    However, financial key figures aren’t the only way we can measure our performance in the past business year. Our achievements and progress in the field of sustainabil- ity are equally important. We want our building materials to be used to create intel- ligent, resilient, and sustainable buildings as well as infrastructure for tomorrow – and we want to keep the ecological footprint associated with their production as small as possible. To underline the importance of sustainability to our business success, we are publishing a combined Annual and Sustainability Report for the first time and underpin our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, whose ten princi- ples relating to human rights, labour standards, the environment, and corruption prevention serve as key guidelines for our entrepreneurial activity.
Heidelberg Materials – our new global brand
You’ll notice that this report also has a fresh look. In September 2022, we introduced “Heidelberg Materials,” our first global brand in our 150-year history, and work is now underway to gradually roll it out to all Group countries. Our new brand identity will allow us to take full advantage of our organisation’s strengths and represent our positions consistently, both internally and externally. The fact that our colleagues in the Group’s more than 50 countries have responded so positively to our new brand is proof of the great sense of cohesion felt by the Heidelberg Materials team world- wide, I’m personally very pleased of that.
We continue to drive our industry’s transformation
We have the ambition, the speed, the knowledge, the technologies, and the partners to lead the necessary process of transformation in our sector. Our focus is on ex- panding our portfolio of sustainable products, rapidly and significantly reducing our CO2 emissions, proving that the production of carbon-neutral products is possible on a large scale, and creating a circular economy by rigorously implementing the prin- ciple of circularity. Our recently tightened Sustainability Commitments 2030 under- score this ambition.
“We must take the entire value chain into account if we’re to achieve climate neutrality.”
Dr Dominik von Achten
We continue to make good progress towards net zero. We succeeded in reducing our specific net CO2 emissions by a further 2% in the 2022 financial year. But we must take the entire value chain into account, from raw materials to reuse, if we’re to achieve climate neutrality. That’s why we pushed ahead our recycling activities, a particular focus of our portfolio optimisation in 2022. By acquiring recycling compa- nies in Germany, the UK, and the USA, we have taken another important step towards implementing our circular economy strategy.
CCUS roadmap as the key to decarbonisation
On our journey towards climate-neutrality, CCUS – carbon capture, utilisation, and storage – is a crucial tool for us as a building materials manufacturer when it comes to dealing with the raw material-related process emissions that have been unavoid- able up to now. As early as next year, 2024, we will put the world’s first industrial- scale carbon capture facility at a cement plant into operation in Brevik, Norway. This will make us a front runner in the use of this key technology for decarbonising our industry.
With a portfolio of nine innovative, industrial-scale CCUS projects to date, we are continuing to expand our pioneering role. In 2022, we launched our largest CCUS project so far in Mitchell, USA, which will have the capacity to capture approximately 2 million tonnes of CO2 per year. In early 2023, we announced two more major CCUS projects. At our plant in Antoing, Belgium, we will build a state-of-the-art hybrid carbon capture facility that will help us to reduce our CO2 emissions by 800,000 tonnes. We’re planning the same capacity at our plant in Devnya, Bulgaria. Both projects are scheduled to start in 2028.

To our stakeholders
Report of the Supervisory Board
(Aktiengesetz, AktG). The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that both Mr Mucic and Mr Merckle have exper- tise in the areas of accounting and auditing. For more information, see the Corporate Governance state- ment chapter.
In the reporting year, the Personnel Committee fo- cused on the preliminary discussion and recommenda- tion to the Supervisory Board regarding the determina- tion of the variable Managing Board remuneration for the 2021 financial year and on the definition of param- eters for the variable Managing Board remuneration in 2022 and in the years from 2022 to 2024/25, respec- tively. Finally, the Personnel Committee assured itself that all members of the Managing Board have car- ried out the required individual investment in HeidelbergCement AG shares as part of the Managing Board remuneration system.
The Sustainability and Innovation Committee, which was newly formed in the reporting year, received re- ports about the Sustainability Office from the Manag- ing Board and dealt with sustainability topics, in par- ticular with regard to the decarbonisation roadmap, ESG benchmarking, and the status and development of the Innovation Hub, a department within the Sustaina- bility Office that brings together and promotes innova- tive ideas.
Due to the announced resignation from the Super- visory Board of Mr Fritz-Jürgen Heckmann and Mr Tobias Merckle, the Nomination Committee discussed the issue of succession in the reporting year. It recom- mended that the Supervisory Board propose Dr Bernd Scheifele and Dr Sopna Sury to the 2022 Annual Gen- eral Meeting for election to the Supervisory Board as successors to the two resigning shareholder represent- atives.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 15
    The Mediation Committee, formed in accordance with section 27(3) of the German Codetermination Law (MitbestG), did not need to meet.
The results of the committees’ meetings were reported at the subsequent plenary sessions.
During the reporting year, there were no potential con- flicts of interest of any Managing Board or Supervisory Board member that would have had to be disclosed to the Supervisory Board without undue delay. There were also no consulting or other contracts for services or work between any member of the Supervisory Board and the company in the 2022 reporting year.
In the reporting period, there were no transactions with related parties requiring disclosure within the meaning of sections 111a(1)(2) and 111b(1) of the AktG.
Corporate Governance
The declaration of compliance in the reporting year was submitted by the Supervisory Board on 31 January 2022 and by the Managing Board on 11 February 2022. The declaration of compliance for the current year was submitted by the Managing Board on 13 January 2023 and by the Supervisory Board on 30 January 2023. The complete text can be found in the Declaration of com- pliance section pursuant to section 161 of the AktG in the Corporate Governance statement chapter. The current declaration of compliance is made permanent- ly available on the company’s website.
With regard to its composition and that of the Manag- ing Board, the Supervisory Board thoroughly complies with the guidelines of the German Corporate Govern- ance Code regarding the principles of diversity when appointing corporate bodies and leadership positions within the Group and of section 289f(2)(6) of the Ger- man Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch, HGB) (diversity concept). Regarding its own composition, it
implements the diversity targets stated in the Code and the profile of skills for the Supervisory Board agreed on 11 September 2017. Detailed information on this topic can be found in the Corporate Governance statement chapter.
In March 2020, the Supervisory Board resolved to set the target figure for the proportion of women on the Managing Board to at least one woman for the period from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2025. With Dr Nicola Kimm as a member of the Managing Board since 1 September 2021, this target was achieved ahead of schedule. The Supervisory Board also welcomes and supports the Managing Board’s target of further increasing the pro- portion of women in management positions in the first and second leadership levels below the Managing Board. For details, please refer to the Corporate Gov- ernance statement chapter.
With regard to the remuneration for the members of the Managing Board for the 2022 financial year, specif- ics are included in the Remuneration report chapter to avoid repetition. A description of the adjusted ver- sion of the Managing Board remuneration system, ap- plicable from 1 January 2021, can also be found here. Having been commissioned to do so by the company, the auditor also carried out the voluntary audit of the correctness of the content of the 2022 remuneration report and issued an unqualified audit opinion. The Su- pervisory Board examined the remuneration report in detail in the presence of the auditor and approved the report together with the Managing Board. The 2022 remuneration report will be submitted to the 2023 An- nual General Meeting for approval and will be available on the company’s website for ten years.
The members of the Supervisory Board are themselves responsible for obtaining the training required for their tasks and are supported by the company in this respect. The company also offers specific training sessions –
             
To our stakeholders
Report of the Supervisory Board
sometimes with external support – for members of the Supervisory Board, most recently in November 2022. These training courses cover topics that are particular- ly relevant to the company and the work of the Super- visory Board – for example, with regard to legal chang- es, the selection of suitable investment projects, the ongoing development of the company’s antitrust law compliance system, the company’s risk management system, the implementation of EU taxonomy, and the changes to the German Corporate Governance Code. If required, new members of the Supervisory Board are given an introduction to the legal framework surround- ing the Supervisory Board and can also meet with members of the Managing Board and line managers to discuss fundamental and current issues in order to gain an overview of the topics that are relevant to the com- pany. New Supervisory Board members also receive comprehensive information about the corporate gov- ernance of the company as well as insider law process- es and obligations.
In addition, the Managing Board reports on corporate governance at Heidelberg Materials also for the Super- visory Board in the Corporate Governance statement chapter.
With the statements listed above, the Supervisory Board has reaffirmed its commitment to effective cor- porate governance in the Group.
Auditing and approval of annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, and non-financial statement
Before the contract for the auditing of the annual finan- cial statements of the company and the consolidated financial statements of the Group was awarded, the points of focus for the audit and the content of the audit were discussed in detail with the auditor, Price- waterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell- schaft, Frankfurt am Main. The Audit Committee dis-
Heidelberg Materials 2022 16
    cussed the costs of the audit and with the auditor the assessment of audit risk, the audit strategy, audit plan- ning, and the audit results with the auditor. The Chair- man of the Audit Committee and the auditor regularly exchanged information on the progress of the audit, after which the Chairman reported to the committee.
In January 2023, the Managing Board informed the Supervisory Board about the preliminary, unaudited key figures for the 2022 financial year and provided a status report on the financial statements work. The an- nual financial statements of HeidelbergCement AG, the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2022, and the combined management report for the company and the Group, as prepared by the Managing Board, were examined by the auditor. In addition, the auditor performed a limited assurance engagement on the non-financial statement (sections 289b and 315b of the HGB) contained in the combined management re- port on behalf of the Supervisory Board. The financial statements together with the reading copies of the au- ditors’ reports were sent in advance to the members of the Supervisory Board. At first, the Audit Committee dealt intensively with the financial statements docu- ments (including the non-financial statement) in the presence of the auditor. The auditor reported on the main results of its audit. In addition, the Audit Commit- tee had the auditor report on the effectiveness of the internal control and early risk identification system in relation to accounting, whereby the auditor stated that he had not found any significant weaknesses in this re- gard. Against this background and after its own con- sideration, the Audit Committee determined that the internal control system, the internal audit system, and the risk management system, including the early risk identification system, meet the requirements to be placed on them. The Supervisory Board shares the opinion of the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of these systems. Then, the Supervisory Board discussed the financial statement documents (including the
non-financial statement) in detail, once again in the presence of the auditor. Respective discussions in the Audit Committee and Supervisory Board also took place without the participation of the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board approved the audit results. It examined the annual financial statements and consol- idated financial statements, the combined manage- ment report (including the non-financial statement), and the Managing Board’s proposal for the use of the balance sheet profit. The results of the pre-audit con- ducted by the Audit Committee and the results of its own audit correspond fully to the results of the auditor. The Supervisory Board raised no objections to the final results of this examination. The auditor issued an un- qualified audit opinion on the annual financial state- ments of HeidelbergCement AG and the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2022 as well as the combined management report of HeidelbergCement AG and the Group.
The Supervisory Board approved the Managing Board’s proposal for the use of the balance sheet profit, includ- ing the payout of a dividend of €2.60 per share (previ- ous year: €2.40).
  

Sustainability
Compliance
Compliance
Compliance is a vital element of our corporate values. The public image of Heidelberg Materials is shaped by the conduct of each and every employee. We respect the cultures and laws of the countries in which we operate as well as the local people and institutions. With our Code of Business Conduct, we have introduced a Group-wide set of rules to which all of us are com- mitted.
Compliant behaviour is at the heart of our business activities
We can only achieve success by working as a team – and compliance is no exception. In turn, this means that compliance work itself must be clearly defined by rules and widely communicated. This is the role of our compliance management system. In addition to over- seeing the system, the Managing Board takes the lead when it comes to reminding the workforce of their com- pliance obligations.
Compliant behaviour is also integral to our business model. Our production and extraction sites are gener- ally designed for a service life of several decades. To maintain operating permits at our locations over these long periods and to renew our mining concessions at the required intervals, we need the constant support of the public and must prove our integrity time and time again.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 28
    Our compliance management system
Our compliance management system consists of seven elements, which are also laid down in the auditing standard 980 issued by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer in Deutsch- land e.V., IDW).
– Our compliance culture is documented in our Code of Business Conduct.
– Our Code of Business Conduct and other compliance guidelines also define clear compliance targets.
– We generally carry out compliance risk assess- ments to help guide our compliance work, but also to specifically address the topics of anti-corruption and human rights.
– Our compliance programme includes, in particular, guidelines, a whistle-blower system and case man- agement, sanctions screening, and reviews of busi- ness partners.
– The compliance organisation clearly defines re- sponsibilities and ensures complete coverage of all compliance topics.
– Compliance communications include web-based and face-to-face training, videos, posters, online in- formation, compliance letters, and other media use.
– Regular compliance checks are primarily carried out by Group Internal Audit.
We regularly make our employees aware of compliance matters. The topic is firmly integrated into all work processes through training opportunities and practical application on a daily basis. If there is no specific guide- line on how to act in a particular situation, the compli- ance team can be consulted to give recommendations in line with our ethical standards and our Code of Busi- ness Conduct. We carry out our responsibilities towards customers, suppliers, official bodies, and business partners with honesty, integrity, and professionalism.
We believe that adhering to the principles of our Code of Business Conduct ensures the business success of Heidelberg Materials, creates a working environment built on trust, and leads to higher levels of satisfaction among all of our company’s stakeholders. Non-financial statement


Sustainability
Our employees
Heidelberg Materials 2022 56
    trend through active generation management and by offering numerous health management and preventive care measures adapted to regional requirements.
Flexible working time models, a digital workplace, and mobile working have become the norm for us in our commitment to work-life balance. This offering is com- plemented by virtual workshops and preventive screen- ing, covering many different health topics, as part of our health management activities. The sports groups, courses, and our own gym at our headquarters support mental and physical health. To promote sustainable and flexible mobility, we also subsidise offers such as the JobTicket public transport and JobRad bike leasing schemes.
Through trainee programmes, dual apprenticeship and study partnerships, specialist and managerial develop- ment, and professional training, we invest specifically in the best possible qualification of our employees. With our e-campus and the possibility of international work assignments, we can also hold our own in the global labour market.
Remuneration policy and working time regulation
The remuneration systems at Heidelberg Materials are based on performance and results in accordance with the market standards for internationally operating companies in our sector. Alongside fixed remuneration governed by a collective agreement or an individual work contract, our employees also receive variable re- muneration elements based on their individual perfor- mance and on corporate success. Our CO2 reduction
targets are consistently anchored in our global remu- neration systems as well: the full variable remuneration can only be achieved if both the financial targets and the sustainability target are met. This regulation has applied to all members of the Managing Board and to every bonus-eligible employee worldwide since the start of the 2021 financial year.
We consciously aim to achieve a high variable element as part of the total remuneration of our managers in order to directly reflect the connection between per- sonal performance and corporate success.
Collective regulations apply to more than half of the Group’s employees. The employees in our foreign sub- sidiaries benefit otherwise from attractive remunera- tion systems that correspond to the respective local market conditions.
Our working time regulations comply with the legal re- quirements in effect at our respective locations. We promote adherence to these regulations by means of our whistle-blower system, which employees can use to individually report possible violations (passive monitor- ing). To enable flexible working time options, we offer models such as flexitime, working time accounts, part- time work, and leaves of absence, for example in the form of a sabbatical, to our employees in many coun- tries. Older employees also have the option of switch- ing to partial retirement.
Employment and co-determination
Employee co-determination has always been of great importance to us. Statutory, collective bargaining, and company regulations are implemented jointly in close cooperation with employee representatives. The works council and Group management work together in a spirit of trust.
In accordance with the defined co-determination and participation rights, the relevant committees are in- formed in good time so that opinions can be obtained, and then agreements are made with them. Heidelberg Materials works consistently and intensively with em- ployee representatives in a spirit of trust. These repre- sentatives are involved in numerous committees and are informed at an early stage about operational changes. In the event of a reorganisation or job cuts, we work in close consultation to achieve a socially re- sponsible solution and, for example, initially examine the possibility of transferring employees within the Group. If this is not feasible, we try to cushion the indi- vidual impact through retraining, early-retirement schemes, outplacement, and severance payments. Non-financial statement
 
Sustainability
Our employees
Heidelberg Materials 2022 58
    Education
For Heidelberg Materials, forward-looking HR manage- ment means consistently investing in training. With an apprentice retention rate of 85% in Germany, steady growth of qualified young talent is guaranteed.
In addition to technical skills for ensuring functionally sound processes, digital competences have also be- come indispensable. We already cover the technical part with virtual learning platforms and multilingual e-learning courses, specifically developed by the Ger- man Cement Works Association (VDZ). A complete ed- ucational offering is ensured through additional train- ing covering professional use of programmes for virtual communication and cooperation, how to deal personally with the new work and life situation, and topics of mental health and resilience.
As a manufacturing Group, occupational safety is al- ways a key element of our training and career develop- ment programmes. In addition, we focus our efforts on specialist training and the training of our managers. Our training programmes in virtually every work area are characterised by practical and business-oriented learning and enable our employees to develop their skills in the best possible way.
The Cement Academy of the Competence Center Cement (CCC) offers seminars and training sessions around the world for the engineers and technicians at our cement plants, while the Aggregates Academy of the Competence Center Aggregates & Asphalt (CCA) provides apprenticeships and employee training in the aggregates business line. Process simulators and various web-based learning programmes, including the
multilingual Cement Manufacturing Curriculum, on which more than 3,000 employees are enrolled, are regularly used to supplement our classroom courses.
Strengthening digital competences
There is undeniably a need to build and expand digital competences, drive change processes in the context of digital transformation, and further digitalise personnel processes and systems. Our efforts are focused on fundamental digital media skills as well as topics relat- ed to specific functions. To increase the transparency of our digital activities for employees, all key global digitalisation projects and the tools used within the Group are explained on a platform to which all employ- ees have access. We used external training databases to also significantly expand e-learning offerings on var- ious digitalisation topics in the past year.
Training on the use of virtual communication and col- laboration tools also accounted for a large part of de- mand in the past year. To meet this demand, we offer both in-house courses and comprehensive digital train- ing and certification from external partners (Microsoft certification tracks).
Successor planning
Securing and developing junior executives is an impor- tant pillar of our personnel development strategy. We have intensified our activities aimed at expanding our development programmes and strengthening our re- cruitment of university graduates worldwide. We offer them extensive, international trainee programmes fo- cusing on the areas of technology, sales, finance, HR, and procurement, as well as interdisciplinary posts.
Through a special programme, we also equip highly qualified engineers in the cement business for senior engineering positions. The participants undergo indi- vidually tailored training programmes that allow them to gain the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience to prepare them for the next stage of their career. Spending time at cement plants in different countries is a key element of the programme’s success.
Since 2013, Heidelberg Materials has been the proud recipient of the trainee seal of the German initiative for career-enhancing and fair trainee programmes each year for our programmes for the advancement of future executives. As a member of the Fair Company initiative and bearer of the Fair Company seal, we have also been voluntarily committed to the creation of fair and attractive working conditions for trainees and young professionals. Non-financial statement
 

We work hard to minimise and prevent risks for our em- ployees, customers, suppliers, and other third parties. To this end, we carry out regular risk assessments at our locations so that we can evaluate risks and take appropriate protective measures. Based on the results of these risk assessments, we have introduced and continuously updated various Group-wide safety standards in recent years in order to address activities with particularly high risks consistently. These stand- ards are translated into local measures at our locations and, if necessary, supplemented by additional meas- ures. As part of workplace inspections, we check com- pliance with these internal standards as well as with other legally mandated external requirements. Any shortcomings we identify are rectified as quickly as possible.
All our measures give due consideration not only to our own employees but also to the employees of external companies. They work for us in areas such as produc- tion, maintenance and repair, transport, other services, and consulting. We have therefore addressed the issue of contractor safety with a separate Group standard to take account of the particular requirements placed on external companies as well as those that must be met by Heidelberg Materials when engaging external companies.
Transport is another important focus of our work, as traffic accidents have unfortunately repeatedly led to uninvolved third parties sustaining injuries or even los- ing their lives. We address this issue in training courses for our own drivers and those who drive on our behalf. The driver training courses aim to raise drivers’ safety
awareness so that they can identify and reduce poten- tial risks at an early stage. This training in defensive driving is not only theory based; it is also increasingly delivered using driving simulators, at driving safety centers, or through supervised driving. In addition, we are making greater use of technical aids. As well as fitting vehicles with various assistance systems and using such systems, examples of this approach also include checking the roadworthiness of third-party vehicles before loading.
Improving mental health
In addition to the measures outlined above for the pre- vention of accidents and standard occupational dis- eases, various Group countries are also increasingly working with external organisations in order to improve the mental health of employees. The idea is to raise awareness of mental health problems and train em- ployees to recognise warning signs and offer support. The aim of the measures is to dispel prejudices and encourage those affected to talk about their problems and seek help.
In recognition of the sensitivity of the topic and to make it easier for those affected to access appropriate services, many of our subsidiaries offer external sup- port programmes that provide help anonymously and free of charge. Countries in which such programmes are available include Germany, the UK, Belgium, Canada, the USA, and Australia.
Non-financial statement
 

    As a global Group with a strong regional business fo- cus, we operate at many locations across the world. Our production and quarrying sites are generally de- signed for a service life of several decades. To maintain acceptance of our business activities at the sites over these long periods, we are active in the communities close to our plants and fulfil our corporate social re- sponsibility (CSR). We create jobs and promote local economic development with our wages, investment, purchasing, and taxes, particularly in economically weak regions.
Social engagement at our locations
We have made a commitment to social responsibility in our Code of Business Conduct. At our locations, we strive for a constructive, trusting, and neighbourly re- lationship with local residents. We support the social and economic development of our neighbouring com- munities and foster transparent communication with all stakeholders. We aim to work with local partners to create added value both for our Group and for the local communities. People in the communities where we op- erate also expect us to contribute to the areas sur- rounding our production sites by regularly providing information about our business activities and through our commitment to local social, economic, and environ- mental development. Taking social responsibility and
maintaining good relationships with our stakeholders – particularly at our production sites – are management tasks. The national management team, together with the national CSR manager, is responsible for social en- gagement in each country. Funding decisions for indi- vidual countries are made by the national management teams within their budgetary framework. Together with the location representatives, they are also responsible for analysing local needs and for selecting, implement- ing, and monitoring projects.
Involving local communities
We involve local communities in our business activities through various dialogue formats as well as communi- ty engagement plans. Among other things, these strat- egies include long-term partnerships with non-govern- mental and non-profit organisations. In addition, we keep the local communities and stakeholders informed via newsletters or at open days.
We have also defined clear evaluation criteria to ensure that our activities are both transparent and effective. We support projects, initiatives, and organisations that are active at our locations or to which we have a direct link. We attach great importance to ensuring that the guidelines and principles of these organisations align with our own corporate philosophy.
Our engagement is focused on the following areas:
– Culture: we promote cultural initiatives for all age groups in our local communities.
– Environment: we support initiatives that promote environmental protection and strengthen the diver- sity of nature at our locations.
– Infrastructure: we provide practical help in the con- struction of buildings and infrastructure by making products, financial means, and expertise available.
– Education: in this area, we are guided by the specif- ic needs of our locations. We foster potential and encourage initiatives such as education partner- ships.
Focus of our engagement in 2022
At Heidelberg Materials, we stepped up our humanitar- ian efforts in 2022 in response to the Russia-Ukraine war. The country organisation in Poland, for example, took direct action and made the conference center on site available to host refugees. In addition to nu- merous other initiatives there, financial aid was provid- ed for Ukrainian students at the University of Opole, a charity run was organised, and deliveries of relief sup- plies to Ukraine were supported. In Germany, too, one of our buildings was made available to host refugees and a fundraising campaign was organised among employees.

Combined management report
Fundamentals of the Group
Heidelberg Materials’ business model encompasses the entire value chain, from the extraction of raw ma- terials to further processing into cement through to the end product, concrete and its recycling.
Heidelberg Materials operates as a fully integrated building materials company. Key business processes include the extraction of raw materials, the production of building materials, as well as their sales and distri- bution to customers. Operating activities are support- ed by central competence centers for technology as well as by shared service centers in individual countries and regions. Operating business processes include the geological exploration of raw material deposits, the purchase or lease of the land where the deposits are located, applying for mining concessions and environ- mental impact assessments, the construction of man- ufacturing facilities in cooperation with external service providers, as well as the actual production of building materials, including extracting raw materials, process- ing and recycling building materials, and maintenance of the facilities.
Products
Our core products cement, aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, and asphalt are homogeneous bulk goods. Their product characteristics are mostly standardised in order to ensure the required stability, reliability, and processability in the application.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 67
    Cements are classified according to their early and final strength as well as their composition. In addition to cements that consist of almost 100% clinker, there are so-called composite cements, in which a portion of the clinker is replaced by alternative raw materials, such as fly ash, ground slag, or limestone. Cement is used as a binder mainly in concrete production.
Aggregates (sand, gravel, and crushed rock) are clas- sified according to their particle size and texture. They are the main component in the production of concrete and asphalt but are also used as base courses in the construction of infrastructure, such as roads.
Concrete is a mixture of aggregates (about 80%), cement (about 12%), and water. Concrete is usually delivered to the construction site by ready-mix trucks and is poured locally into forms. Moreover, concrete is also used for the production of precast concrete parts, such as stairs, ceiling elements, or structural compo- nents.
Asphalt is a mixture of aggregates (about 95%) and bitumen and is generally used as a top layer in road construction.
Locations and sales markets
Due to the heavy weight of cement, aggregates, and ready-mixed concrete in proportion to their price, pro- duction is usually located in close proximity to the sales markets. The cement transportation radius by road normally does not exceed 200 km. The delivery radius for aggregates, ready-mixed concrete, and asphalt by road is generally less than 100 km. Consequently, we have local production sites in more than 50 countries in which we offer building materials.
We operate around 130 cement plants (plus a further 20 as part of joint ventures), just under 600 quarries and aggregates pits, as well as around 1,320 ready- mixed concrete production sites worldwide. In total, the Group employs 50,780 people at around 2,500 loca- tions on five continents. There are additionally more than 350 production sites belonging to joint ventures.
Organisational structure
The Group is divided into five geographical Group areas: Western and Southern Europe, Northern and Eastern Europe-Central Asia, North America, Asia-Pacific, and Africa-Eastern Mediterranean Basin. Our global trading activities, especially the trading of cement and clinker, are pooled together in the sixth Group area, Group Services.
Within the geographical Group areas, we have divided our activities into four business lines. The cement and aggregates business lines comprise the essential raw materials that are required for the manufacture of the downstream products ready-mixed concrete and as- phalt, which are combined in our third business line. The fourth business line, service-joint ventures-other, pri- marily covers the activities of our joint ventures.


Countries/locations
Importance of sustainability to the business model
We want to significantly reduce the impact of our busi- ness activities on the climate and lower our carbon footprint. As a leading building materials manufacturer, we see it as our responsibility to play a decisive role in transforming our industry to meet current and future needs. We want to make a substantial contribution to sustainable construction and carbon neutrality and assume social and environmental responsibility.
Climate protection is an integral part of the Group strategy. The production of cement generates a large amount of CO2 due to the chemical processes involved in burning clinker and the high temperatures this re- quires. Therefore, we are making greater use of alter- native raw materials and fuels to reduce CO2 emissions. We also optimise our production processes to increase energy efficiency. To reduce the consumption of pri- mary raw materials, we are committed to circularity and strengthening the circular economy. At product level, our focus is on the broad introduction of low-car- bon cements and concretes, the use of recycled mate-

Combined management report
Non-financial statement
Information according to the EU Taxonomy Regulation
The Taxonomy Regulation is a classification system that translates the EU’s climate and environmental ob- jectives into criteria for certain environmentally sus- tainable economic activities for investment purposes. Economic activities are recognised as “environmental- ly sustainable” if they make a substantial contribution to at least one of the EU’s climate and environmental objectives while not significantly harming any of the other defined environmental objectives. In addition, minimum social standards must be met.
Assessment of taxonomy eligibility
The portfolio of our business activities was assessed in the reporting year with regard to taxonomy eligibility under the delegated acts on climate change mitigation and adaptation. In addition to 3.7 Manufacture of ce- ment (represented in the following as the cement busi- ness line), 5.9 Material recovery from non-hazardous waste (represented in the following as the recycled ag- gregates operating line within the aggregates business line) has been identified as a relevant economic activi- ty (see Circular economy section) and included in the reporting pursuant to the requirements of Article 8 of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. There are also other tax- onomy-eligible economic activities within Heidelberg Materials’ business lines, such as transport services, which are, however, not shown separately and are in- cluded in the reporting for the cement business line and activity 3.7.
Heidelberg Materials’ other business activities, such as the ready-mixed concrete-asphalt business line, are taxonomy-non-eligible under the currently known legal acts. We also analysed cross-sectional economic ac- tivities for the CapEx and OpEx KPIs, but this did not result in any additional reportable activities.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 114
    Review of the technical screening criteria
The technical screening criteria for taxonomy align- ment with the act on climate change mitigation were reviewed by an interdisciplinary working group and with the involvement of further experts, especially with re- gard to the interpretation of the “do no significant harm” (DNSH) criteria. The requirements of the climate change adaptation act were not pursued further, as we are currently unable to achieve taxonomy-aligned rev- enue, capital expenditure and operating expenditure in accordance with the regulation.
To review the criteria determining whether a substantial contribution to climate change mitigation (substantial contribution criteria) is made, internal reporting sys- tems and data were used to verify compliance with the respective limit values at plant level. The analysis dif- ferentiates between the various types of plants (inte- grated plants, clinker plants, grinding plants) on the basis of the reporting definitions set out by the GCCA industry association.
For the somewhat more qualitative DNSH criteria, the individual (legal) requirements and their applicability to Heidelberg Materials were reviewed and potential ap- proaches for proving the alignment of the individual plants were devised. For example, a location-based assessment for climate change adaptation was devel- oped, covering various climate scenarios and time ho- rizons. If risks are identified, the plants will be expected to implement appropriate adaptation measures. At the same time, for criteria such as “protection and resto- ration of biodiversity and ecosystems” or “sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources,” use is made of existing processes. We regularly assess the proximity of our operational sites to protected areas and, if necessary, develop biodiversity management plans. For the “sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources” criterion, we have extended our existing approach of creating water management
plans and make use of the assessment of (potential) risks and impacts carried out for this purpose.
For the manufacture of cement and the “pollution pre- vention and control” criterion, we use, among other things, our long-established processes for monitoring air pollutants to verify compliance. We have also exam- ined the additional requirements for the products we manufacture, such as those relating to placing hazard- ous substances on the market. We come to the conclu- sion that these criteria are fulfilled. With respect to circular economy, there are no requirements within the Taxonomy Regulation for 3.7 Manufacture of cement and 5.9 Material recovery from non-hazardous waste.
In order to comply with the minimum safeguards, we have closely coordinated with the Group Legal and Compliance department and compared our existing measures on human rights, anti-corruption, fair com- petition, and taxation with the requirements of the EU Taxonomy Regulation. As we have been implementing compliance processes in these areas for many years and are continuously reviewing and expanding them, we have come to the conclusion that the minimum safeguards are being met. One current example of our continuous optimisation efforts, is our work in the field of human rights to further expand our analysis of sig- nificant risks and their impact on potentially affected parties. Particularly with respect to our supply chains, we have supplemented our existing risk management with suitable processes (in the context of the require- ments of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG), among other things). Further information on this topic can be found in the Compliance section.
Explanation of the key figures
The key figures revenue, capital expenditure (CapEx), and operating expenditure (OpEx) relevant to the Tax- onomy Regulation were determined with reference to the definitions set out in the Annex to the Delegated
  

The image is a detailed infographic illustrating various sustainability commitments and demographic data for an organization. The infographic is structured around commitments for a "safe and inclusive future" and includes statistics on leadership, training, and workforce demographics. Here’s a detailed breakdown:

### Sustainability Commitments
1. **25% of Leadership Positions Filled by Women**: This commitment indicates the organization's goal to enhance gender diversity in leadership roles.
2. **100% of Sites to Have Community Engagement Plans by 2030**: This commitment shows the organization’s dedication to being actively involved in community engagement across all its locations by the year 2030.
3. **50% Reduction in LTIFR (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate) Compared with 2020**: The organization aims to halve its rate of workplace injuries that result in time lost from work, compared to the year 2020, and aims for zero fatalities.
4. **1 Day of Paid Leave for Voluntary Community Work Per Year**: This policy offers all employees one day of paid leave annually to engage in voluntary community service.

### Workforce Demographics
1. **Age Structure within the Group**:
   - **Under 30 Years**: 11% of the workforce
   - **30-49 Years**: 51% of the workforce
   - **50+ Years**: 38% of the workforce
   These statistics provide insight into the age distribution of the organization's employees, indicating a mature workforce with the majority being between 30 and 49 years old.

2. **14% Share of Female Executives**: This data point details the percentage of female employees holding executive roles with leadership responsibilities (referred to as N-1 and N-2 levels).

### Training Hours
- **28 Hours Per Employee**: The infographic also breaks down the average training hours per employee:
   - **Occupational Safety Training**: 55%
   - **Specialist Training**: 30%
   - **Other**: 5%
   - **Soft Skills Training**: 4%
   - **Management Training**: 4%
   - **Language Courses**: 2%
   This indicates the organization’s focus on continuous learning and development, with a significant emphasis on occupational safety and specialist training.

Overall, the infographic effectively communicates the organization’s key sustainability initiatives and workforce demographics, highlighting its commitment to safety, community engagement, and diversity. The distribution of training topics underscores a robust approach to professional development, ensuring employees are well-equipped for their roles.

Combined management report
Non-financial statement
Responsibility towards our employees Employees
Heidelberg Materials has around 51,000 employees worldwide. We want to offer attractive working condi- tions and jobs with a secure future. For us, a good per- sonnel policy means respecting our employees with their range of talents, qualities, and diversity of expe- rience as well as creating the right conditions to allow them to do their jobs with efficiency and dedication. As a manufacturing company, we also attach importance to occupational safety and the protection of our em- ployees’ health.
At the end of 2022, the number of employees at Heidelberg Materials stood at 50,780 (previous year: 51,209), based on full-time equivalents. The decrease of around 430 employees essentially results from two opposing developments. On the one hand, around 1,200 jobs were cut across the Group as a result of portfolio optimisation measures, the realisation of synergies, efficiency gains in sales and administration, as well as location optimisations. On the other hand, around 770 new employees joined the Group, among others in North America, Australia, and the United Kingdom. Information on the number of employees in the Group areas can be found in the segment reporting.
In the event of a reorganisation or job cuts, we work in close consultation with employee representatives to achieve a socially responsible solution. For example, we initially examine the possibility of transferring em- ployees within the Group. If this is not feasible, we try to cushion the individual impact through retraining, early-retirement schemes, outplacement, and sever- ance payments.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 120
    Diversity, equity, and inclusion
Group-wide, we aim for a mix of diverse nationalities, personalities, skills, and experience. We see the diver- sity in our workforce in terms of cultural and ethnic or- igin, gender, age, mental and physical abilities, and sexual orientation and identity as an asset to our glob- al teams. We are convinced that this diversity, in har- mony with an appreciative corporate culture, has a positive effect on our innovative strength and the com- mitment of our employees.
The international composition of our top and senior management also gives us the benefit of a broad range of experience from different cultural backgrounds. This allows us to respond flexibly and quickly to global chal- lenges as well as local market needs. The proportion of local managers at the upper management level amounts to around 80%.
At our headquarters, we aim to ensure that the work- force is composed of employees from the countries in which we operate, with the intention of improving cooperation with local personnel. Currently, more than 50 different nationalities are represented at our head- quarters.
There are trade unions and similar organisations in nearly all of the countries in which Heidelberg Materials operates. We also engage in regular, open dialogue with representatives of these organisations.
Targets and commitments
Our aim is to attract and develop highly qualified and committed employees worldwide who bring their indi- vidual skills and different perspectives to our company and thus contribute to our business success.
In 2022, we defined a new, ambitious target for the proportion of women at management level. In Germa- ny, we want the proportion of women in the first and second leadership levels below the Managing Board to reach 27% on each level by 2027. Our global target is for women to occupy 25% of management positions by 2030.
We have been signatories to the Diversity Charter since early 2013.
Responsibility and organisation
The Group Human Resources (HR) department is sub- ordinate to the Chairman of the Managing Board, to whom the Director Group Human Resources reports directly. Group HR is also responsible for the topics of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Each country has its own personnel organisation and sets country-specific human resources priorities. The individual HR directors of the countries report directly to the general manager of the respective country and, in a functional reporting line, to the Group Human Resources department.
Members of the employee committees at the individu- al locations form the General Works Council for HeidelbergCement AG and the Group Works Council. The representative body for severely disabled employ- ees is embedded in the local works council for the headquarters in Heidelberg.
Policies
Heidelberg Materials is committed to upholding the core labour standards of the International Labour Or- ganization (ILO), the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, and both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights developed by the United Nations. More- over, we have enshrined this commitment in our Lead- ership Principles. We expect our employees worldwide

to comply with these central guidelines and recommen- dations.
Our Code of Business Conduct is binding across the Group and describes our values as well as our ethical and legal standards. These include non-discriminatory employment conditions and an open and fair dialogue with employee representatives.
With the Company Agreement on Mobile Working in Germany, we are placing particular emphasis on mak- ing our working time models more flexible in order to help our employees achieve a better work-life balance.
We have defined guidelines within the Group that concern, for example, respectful behaviour towards co-workers, the involvement and development of em- ployees, a commitment to a strong feedback culture, and the importance of our customers to our corporate success. We urge our managers and employees world- wide to adapt the way they behave towards one anoth- er accordingly, taking local circumstances into ac- count.
Processes
Employee and employer representatives maintain a close and regular dialogue. For instance, monthly meetings take place between Human Resources repre- sentatives and the works councils at the various loca- tions. Furthermore, the works council organises quar- terly staff meetings at the headquarters, which are attended by the Chairman of the Managing Board and the Director Group Human Resources every six months. A meeting of the General Works Council is held once a year, to which the Chairman of the Managing Board, the Managing Director of the German organisation, the Director Group Human Resources, and the Director HR for Germany are invited. In addition, the works council has formed various committees which liaise with the Group Human Resources department as required.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 121
    Examples include the Personnel Planning Committee, data protection, IT systems, and monthly meetings with the works council at headquarters. Group man- agement and employee representatives also engage in an established, constructive dialogue in the European Works Council.
Human resources issues are considered at Managing Board meetings to which the Director Group Human Resources is invited depending on the topic. The Super- visory Board meets at specified intervals to discuss personnel issues related to the Managing Board.
We have embedded key leadership principles in stand- ard human resources processes. In annual salary re- view processes, we ensure that the remuneration of our managers and employees not covered by collective agreements develops appropriately for each individu- al. As part of a structured target agreement process, managers and employees jointly define the forthcom- ing tasks and expectations. Individual performance appraisals also have an impact on remuneration. A fur- ther purpose of career development discussions is to support our employees’ development and career planning. These processes have been automated for 11 years through our HR Globe HR system and offer self-service features for employees and managers. A total of around 10,000 employees worldwide are reg- istered in the system. Over 35,000 employees have access to e-campus, our current learning management system, in which we offer training activities on special- ist and general work-related topics. We began working on the introduction of our new Workday HR system in a Group-wide project in 2021 with the intention of establishing it as the Group’s central HR IT system worldwide.
Workday will gradually replace systems such as e-cam- pus and HR Globe. We laid the foundation with the global roll-out of Workday in December 2022. More than 45,000 employees are monitored with their HR master data in the system. The roll-out of further mod- ules is planned for 2023, including processes relating to talent management.
Measures and progress
In recent years, we have further developed our meas- ures aimed at promoting women. The proportion of women in programmes for the advancement of future executives across Germany was 31% (previous year: 31%) and therefore, as in previous years, significantly higher than the proportion of women in the total work- force in Germany of 16.9% (previous year: 15.9%). We also provide targeted support for the career develop- ment of our female future executives. In Germany, for example, we participate in a cross-company mentoring programme in cooperation with other companies from the Rhine-Neckar metropolitan region, where our head- quarters is located.
The global NOW – Network of Women, which was launched at Heidelberg Materials in 2011, connects female employees around the world virtually and in person and supports individual career development as well as promoting women in general. The initiative aims, among other things, to support the network’s mem- bers in developing their career potential and to build greater awareness throughout the company of the changing demands on working and living environments. The Allies of NOW programme, introduced in 2021, also offers opportunities for male employees to advocate for gender equality at Heidelberg Materials.
As in previous years, Heidelberg Materials took part in activities for German Diversity Day in 2022.

Combined management report
Non-financial statement
The steps taken in previous years regarding travel re- strictions and protective measures taken at individual locations in response to the coronavirus pandemic were adapted in the reporting year to the relevant local infection situations and regulations. Although many measures have been lifted altogether, some remain in many places because they have proven effective as preventive measures against other infectious diseases, such as flu. These include the increased provision of disinfectants, the installation of physical partitions, and more virtual meetings.
In 2022, we continued training our employees on a range of occupational safety topics, including both legally mandated and internally defined topics relating to key hazards that are relevant locally and across the Group. By doing so, we aim to increase awareness of risks and further reduce the number of accidents, es- pecially those resulting in fatalities.
We make use of conventional training in classrooms or on site in addition to e-learning courses, which are only ever used to supplement face-to-face training. Occu- pational safety topics account for around 55% of all training hours at Heidelberg Materials, corresponding to an average of approximately 15 hours per employee across the Group.
In addition to the conventional training activities, safe- ty conversations also play a central role as a preventive measure against accidents. During these conversa- tions between managers and employees, both safe and unsafe behaviour in the relevant situation are dis- cussed and, if necessary, safer procedures are agreed. In 2022, we asked managers to place a strong focus on conducting last-minute risk assessments in their safety conversations. Our analyses of the causes of accidents show that some accidents could have been prevented if an additional short risk assessment had been performed immediately before the work was car-
Heidelberg Materials
2022 124
    ried out, i.e. at the last minute, taking into account fac- tors such as the current weather conditions or the health of the employees. By focusing more on this is- sue, we want to build greater awareness of this impor- tant preventive step on the part of both management and employees. We record the results of the safety conversations in HC Protect so that, for example, we can detect local pockets of unsafe behaviour. By carry- ing out regular safety inspections, we want to contrib- ute towards compliance with the defined safety re- quirements.
Performance indicators
Lost time injury frequency rate increased slightly in the reporting year to 1.7 (previous year: 1.6). The lost time injury severity rate, on the other hand, decreased sig- nificantly from 95 to 79. This development shows that on average we had fewer serious accidents with long periods of absence. The increased focus on conducting “last minute” risk assessments as a preventive measure is likely to have had a positive impact here. In the busi- ness year 2022, we had to mourn the death of one of our own employees and four employees of contractors lost their lives. In four cases, the accidents occurred during work to remedy unexpected disruptions in the operating process, and in another case there was a traffic accident in the quarry.

As a global Group, Heidelberg Materials is subject to a variety of legal requirements, which vary from country to country. In order to take account of these differenc- es and ensure corporate governance, we have imple- mented a compliance management system across the Group. Within this framework, we carry out compliance risk assessments every four years, most recently in 2020, and determine areas of focus for the content of the compliance programme. This is done by conducting structured interviews with the general managers of the country organisations and the Group directors. Com- pliance risk areas are identified and ranked. The risks in the topic areas of corruption, competition law, and human rights are among the ten most important risks that we mitigate by means of our compliance manage- ment system.
Corruption topic area
Heidelberg Materials’ business activity involves signif- icant cash flows, particularly in sales, procurement, financing, and investments, providing opportunities for corruption to occur in all countries of the world. Ac- cording to Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, many of the countries in which

We apply a zero tolerance policy to violations of appli- cable laws, regulations, and internal company policies. We also expect our employees and business partners worldwide to comply with key guidelines and recom- mendations, such as the principles of the eight core labour standards of the International Labour Organi- zation (ILO), the OECD Guidelines for Multinational En- terprises, and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. All suppliers are also obli- gated to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Our management and monitoring structures are regu- lated in the company’s Articles of Association, the
Heidelberg Materials 2022 125
    Rules of Procedure of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, and the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and are in line with the German Corporate Governance Code (see Corporate Governance state- ment chapter).
The impacts of any new investment on our compliance management system and, in particular, our human rights obligations are also part of our due diligence process. Human rights and business considerations are both taken into account when making investment decisions.
Responsibility and organisation
The compliance programme, which is anchored in the Group-wide management and supervisory structures, is part of our management culture. It comprises the entire compliance organisation within the Group, the set-up of guidelines, and the verification of compliance with these guidelines. The compliance management addresses all compliance topics that Heidelberg Materials has identified as relevant in the compliance risk assessment.
The compliance organisation is under the authority of the Chairman of the Managing Board, to whom the Director Group Legal & Compliance reports directly. Each country has its own compliance officer, who re- ports directly to the country manager and indirectly to the Group Compliance department. The Compliance function is also responsible for the compliance manage- ment system for human rights. In 2022, the Managing Board appointed a Group human rights officer. In order to implement the human rights compliance programme, two new positions have been created in the Group Compliance department with a focus on human rights expertise. The future incumbents will cover topics rang- ing from risk analysis to preventive and remedial meas- ures – in both their own business line and the supply chain. Since the end of 2022, a human rights coordina-
tor has been responsible for human rights compliance management in each of the country organisations. In addition, the country organisations appoint environ- mental experts to assist human rights coordinators as partners in assessing and addressing human rights risks related to environmental aspects.
Policies
Our compliance principles are laid down in the Code of Business Conduct, which covers all compliance topics identified as material for Heidelberg Materials. The or- ganisation of the compliance management system is defined in the internal Compliance Policy.
In 2022, we specified standardised rules for all govern- ance documents in a new framework policy. Against this background, several compliance policies have also been adjusted, such as our Group Compliance Incident Reporting & Case Management Guideline, which lays down the principles for reporting compliance issues, processing and investigating submitted complaints, and protecting those reporting the incidents.
The Group Anti-Corruption Guideline defines principles such as behaving with integrity towards business part- ners or avoiding conflicts of interest.
As regards competition law, the acceptable behaviour for Heidelberg Materials is derived firstly from the ap- plicable antitrust laws including relevant international regulations, such as the antitrust regulations in the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In its Code of Busi- ness Conduct and with the Group Competition Law Guideline, the content of which was also adjusted in 2022, plus the national antitrust law guidelines based on the latter, Heidelberg Materials has made an explic- it internal commitment to strict compliance with anti- trust laws, such as the prohibition of cartels and the abuse of a dominant market position, as well as with the rules of merger control.

Heidelberg Materials’ position on human rights is a commitment by the Group to respect human rights. Among other things, it addresses employees’ working conditions, responsibility at our locations (including the rights of indigenous peoples), and the selection of sup- pliers and customers. The internal Guideline on Human Rights Compliance Management regulates the organi- sation and responsibilities associated with implement- ing compliance with human rights.
Processes
The compliance programme integrated across the Group serves as a cornerstone for achieving our com- pliance targets. A central element of this programme is the self-commitment made by the Group management not to tolerate violations of applicable laws and to im- pose sanctions. The programme also includes internal guidelines and measures that express the legal provi- sions in concrete terms. In addition, suitable corrective and preventive measures are taken to help prevent sim- ilar incidents in the future. Further to annual communi- cation of these guidelines, compliance letters and vid- eo messages are circulated to the workforce. Software is used for the administration of compliance tasks and reporting. The intention is that this will also replace the previous software for compliance risk assessments in 2023. Furthermore, we have established SpeakUp, a web- and telephone-based reporting system accessi- ble across the Group and also to people outside the organisation.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 126
    As well as face-to-face training, employee training is also carried out online. The range of digital courses, which are mandatory for specified groups of employ- ees, covers topics such as the Code of Business Con- duct, competition law, and the prevention of corrup- tion. In order to achieve a 100% completion rate for all digital compliance training, we require the country managers to additionally report on training attend- ance to the responsible member of the Managing Board. The group of persons required to attend the on- line training courses includes, depending on the course, all employees who have a company email address or employees of specific departments and/or managers. The training courses are mandatory for new hires and are repeated every two years. In addition, training ses- sions are conducted on other compliance topics such as human rights or money laundering. They are carried out both at the request of specific departments and on the instructions of the Compliance function.
The entire compliance programme is continuously re- viewed for the need to adapt to current legal and social developments by keeping track of news and exchang- ing information with compliance experts, and is im- proved and further developed accordingly.
Group-wide implementation of the compliance pro- gramme is monitored by regular and special audits by Group Internal Audit as well as via half-yearly reporting by the Director Group Legal & Compliance to the Man- aging Board and the Audit Committee of the Supervi- sory Board. The latter monitors the effectiveness of the compliance programme and verifies in particular whether it adequately satisfies the legal requirements and recognised compliance standards. An additional quarterly report informs the Managing Board members with regional responsibility about the most important compliance incidents in their Group areas. Following the adequacy assessment of the compliance manage- ment system of HeidelbergCement AG carried out in
2021 on the basis of the IDW PS980 auditing standard, which was confirmed without qualification of the audit opinion, the recommendations for improvement have either already been implemented in 2022 or are in im- plementation.
Approximately every three years, we conduct a com- prehensive analysis to assess and prevent corruption risks and possible conflicts of interest. A rolling ap- proach ensures that different Group countries are an- alysed each year as part of this cycle. First, the poten- tial risks within a country organisation are assessed. Then, the measures already in place to limit these risks are evaluated, and finally, we examine whether further measures are needed. On the basis of this assessment, an action plan is drawn up for each country, and its implementation is monitored by the Group Legal & Compliance department.
In the area of competition law, we have a comprehen- sive reporting system on antitrust investigation pro- ceedings. An annual competition law update takes place at the level of the Managing Board and of the employees who report directly to the members of the Managing Board with responsibility for sales. Further- more, annual qualitative assessments of the antitrust risks take place in the countries. A regular external au- dit of the competition law compliance programme is conducted by a specialist law firm approximately every three years.
We have established management processes that allow us to exercise effective human rights due diligence and in our opinion meet the requirements of both the United Nations Guiding Principles and the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG).

Combined management report
Non-financial statement
In our country organisations, we carry out human rights risk analyses, which are currently still scheduled to be repeated every three years. The exact timetable is agreed individually with each country organisation. From 2023, HeidelbergCement AG is required by law to carry out annual risk reviews. The process will consider risks relating to discrimination, child or forced labour, risks to freedom of association and collective bargain- ing, risks to fair and safe working conditions, to the right of peoples to self-determination, and to the rights of indigenous peoples. The analysis includes determin- ing potential risks from the perspective of different functions, such as production, procurement, or sales, as well as identifying existing measures and defining additional measures to be implemented. The commit- ment to human rights aspects as a central selection criterion for suppliers is driven forward by our supplier management system. This obliges our partners to commit to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which re- quires compliance with human rights due diligence ob- ligations as defined by the German LkSG, such as the prohibition of forced labour and rules on non-discrimi- nation.
Measures and progress
Non-compliance with our guidelines by employees may result in disciplinary measures up to and including dis- missal. Violations of corruption or competition laws, human rights, or contractual agreements by third par- ties may result in their exclusion from conducting busi- ness with Heidelberg Materials or require them to meet certain test conditions.
Heidelberg Materials 2022 127
    Our SpeakUp reporting platform, helps us not only to track compliance violations, but also to improve our preventive measures. SpeakUp is publicised on the in- tranet, on the internet, and at the various locations by means of informative posters. To reinforce our efforts to combat corruption, the country organisations are working on the implementation of individual country measures that were defined as part of the corruption risk assessment. The same applies to competition law and the protection of human rights.
In 2022, the preventive activities of the compliance of- ficers once again placed great emphasis on compli- ance with the provisions of competition law and anti- corruption regulations. In order to implement the German LkSG, the compliance officers have intensified their cooperation with the Group department Group Procurement as part of the Responsible Procurement initiative. Other functions were made aware of their hu- man rights due diligence obligations via information events backed by appropriate training measures.
After pandemic-related restrictions were lifted, more training measures could be carried out again in 2022, with virtual concepts continuing to dominate. Compli- ance audits by Group Internal Audit were carried out on-site again.
Efforts to protect human rights at our own locations – with a focus on safe working conditions and anti- discrimination – and in the supply chain continued and were intensified by the new human rights compliance organisation described above and the Responsible Pro- curement initiative. In addition to training activities, this work included systematically assessing human rights risks on a country-by-country basis and compil- ing key indicators relating to human rights. The results were analysed jointly by the respective country organ- isation and the Group Compliance department. The implementation of the agreed action plans for further risk reduction was reviewed and reported to the re- sponsible member of the Managing Board.
Performance indicators

At the end of the reporting year, the compliance e-learning programmes assigned to employees across the Group, covering the Code of Business Conduct and anti-corruption issues, had completion rates of 94%10) and 95%10) respectively.
Electronic training on antitrust law is additionally as- signed to employees who work in sales or procurement, have management responsibility, or otherwise have contact with competitors, customers, and suppliers, achieving a completion rate of 93%10) at the end of the reporting year. There were also other compliance ac- tivities in the area of antitrust law (seminars, lectures, and other measures).
The country organisations are required to report key figures, such as the number of compliance cases re- ported through the case management system that in- volve suspected human rights violations. Apart from cases on health and occupational safety, four cases of discrimination were reported in relation to human rights issues, one of which was confirmed, and seven cases of harassment, with four justified complaints. The con- firmed cases were responded to with sanctions and/or preventive measures.
18
Of the 233 incidents reported, around half proved to be unfounded, while for 20%, no final investigation result had been determined by the editorial deadline. For just under 28% of the incidents, the investigations revealed that they were at least partially substantiated. None of the substantiated incident reports had a material im- pact on the consolidated financial statements.
For all substantiated cases, measures were taken, ranging from root cause analysis, changes to policies and processes, and communication and training through to disciplinary action (such as a written warn- ing or dismissal). In 42% of the substantiated cases, sanctions are imposed and for 81% of these incidents, preventive measures are implemented.
10) Since 2022, the training status of the persons to be trained at the end of the financial year has been reported over the two-year training repetition period.

1. **Total Reported Incidents**: 
   - The infographic states that there were 233 incidents reported in the current year. For comparison, the previous year (2021) had 238 reported incidents, indicating a slight decrease in the number of reports.

2. **Methods of Reporting**: 
   - The majority of the reports, 79%, were made through the "SpeakUp" compliance reporting system, which seems to be a dedicated platform for reporting compliance-related incidents within the organization.
   - Of these reports made via the SpeakUp system:
     - 78% were submitted online.
     - 22% were made via telephone, highlighting a significant preference for digital reporting over phone calls.
   - Additionally, 21% of the reports were submitted through more traditional means such as emails or letters, showing that a portion of the workforce still uses conventional communication methods for reporting.


