TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Report of the Supervisory Board
Gordon Riske
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
MTU can look back over a successful year – despite the ongoing challenges caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the impact of the war in Ukraine on energy supply and supply chains. Thanks to its technological edge, balanced portfolio and broad customer base, MTU is well-positioned for continues growth in the future. The following sections contain the Supervisory Board’s report on its activities in fiscal year 2022. The Supervisory Board will continue its close and trustful collaboration with all stakeholders in 2023.
Activities of the Supervisory Board
In this report, the Supervisory Board provides information in accordance with Section 171 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) on its activities in fiscal 2022 and the results of its review of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements. In 2022, the Su- pervisory Board carried out, fully and with due care, the duties of oversight and advice entrusted to it by law, the articles of association, and its own rules of procedure.
It regularly advised the Executive Board on the running
of the company, continually supported and monitored
the management of the business activities and assured itself that the Executive Board’s dealings were proper
and lawful. The Supervisory Board was informed and consulted in a direct and timely manner on all decisions
of consequence for the company. The Executive Board pro- vided the members of the Supervisory Board with regular, prompt and comprehensive information on the company’s situation. The Supervisory Board received written monthly reports on the company’s net assets, financial position
and results of operations. At its meetings, the Supervisory Board also discussed the business performance of all of MTU’s affiliated companies.
The Supervisory Board discussed the strategy and all important projects with the Executive Board. After exam- ination and careful deliberation, the Supervisory Board endorsed the company’s strategic orientation with its focus on sustainable and profitable organic and sustain- able growth. The Supervisory Board passed resolutions on all transactions for which its approval was required in accordance with the law, the company’s articles of association or the Executive Board’s rules of procedure after reviewing and discussing them with the Executive Board. Preparatory meetings can also take place without the Executive Board as necessary. Moreover, the Super- visory Board regularly schedules meetings without the Executive Board.
In 2022, as in previous years, the Supervisory Board examined and oversaw the internal control mechanisms at MTU, especially the risk management system, internal auditing and legally compliant corporate governance. It examined these systems with the support of the Audit
  / Report of the Supervisory Board
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 10
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Committee and in dialogue with the Executive Board and reached the conclusion that the company has implement- ed them effectively; in particular there is an effective internal control and risk management system for the accounting process. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board looked extensively at the company’s compliance. In addition, the change of auditor for the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2023 was the subject of intensive deliberation.
In view of the legal requirements for stock corporations, which impose an obligation to obtain the consent of the Supervisory Board for certain related party transactions, the Supervisory Board adopted an internal procedure to comply with these requirements in 2020. In the report- ing period, there were no transactions requiring consent or disclosure.
Meetings of the Supervisory Board
The Supervisory Board held five routine meetings and two extraordinary meetings in 2022. Two meetings were held in hybrid format: some members of the Supervisory Board attended in person while others participated by video con- ference. The members took part in all meetings, with the exception of one member, who was unable to participate in the two extraordinary meetings. Attendance was therefore 98.5%.
[T2] Supervisory Board members’ attendance at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
At its meeting on March 8, 2022 the Supervisory Board discussed MTU’s Annual Report. The Supervisory Board adopted the annual financial statements and the consol- idated financial statements and approved the combined management report for the company and the Group for fiscal 2021. In addition, it looked in detail at the alloca- tion of the net profit for 2021 available for distribution and approved the Executive Board’s profit distribution proposal. A dividend payment of €2.10 per share eligible for the dividend was therefore proposed to the Annual General Meeting on May 5, 2022. The Supervisory Board approved the non-financial statement for the MTU Group and the company for fiscal 2021. Further, it discussed the appointment of the auditor and submitted a proposal to the Annual General Meeting that Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft should be appointed
to audit the annual financial statements and consoli- dated financial statements for fiscal 2022. Other issues examined by the Supervisory Board were the short-term incentive (STI) payable to the members of the Executive Board for 2021 and the definition of financial and non-fi- nancial targets for the award of STI payments to Execu- tive Board members for 2022. Furthermore a resolution was adopted on amendment of the Supervisory Board’s rules of procedure. The report of the Supervisory Board to the Annual General Meeting and the agenda for the meeting were also agreed on. Furthermore, the Super- visory Board approved the management compensation report and the corporate governance statement.
At its meeting on April 8, 2022, the Supervisory Board looked in detail at the company’s situation and the impact of the war in Ukraine on MTU’s business. The Executive Board also reported in detail to the Supervi- sory Board on the preliminary quarterly figures for the first quarter.
At the meeting on May 4, 2022, the Supervisory Board unanimously approved Reiner Winkler’s request to rend his period of service as a member of the Executive Board and CEO as of the end of December 31, 2022. Moreover, it unanimously decided to appoint Lars Wagner as CEO of MTU effective January 1, 2023.
As part of its regular sustainability reporting, at the meeting on July 26, 2022, the Executive Board provid- ed extensive information on MTU’s progress towards emission-free flying. An important topic in this context was fuel cells in combination with sustainably produced hydrogen. Further, the Supervisory Board discussed in detail the strategic planning presented by the Executive Board. The focus was on key aspects of the planned participation in future engine programs, the plans for sustainable aviation and the proposed investments in MTU’s network of companies. Digitalization was also discussed at length.
 
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At an extraordinary meeting on September 28, 2022,
the Supervisory Board appointed Dr. Silke Maurer to the Executive Board of MTU for a term of three years starting on February 1, 2023. As the Executive Board member responsible for OEM Operations, she is the company’s Chief Operating Officer (COO). The Supervisory Board also resolved on the adjustment of the allocation of responsibilities among the Executive Board members effective February 1, 2023.
At its meeting on October 26, 2022, the Supervisory Board resolved that it would submit a proposal to the Annual General Meeting that KPMG be appointed as the new auditor for the annual financial statements and con- solidated financial statements for fiscal 2023. This was preceded by a multi-step tender and selection process, which was performed by the Audit Committee and led to the recommendation on the appointment of KPMG as the auditor. In addition, the Executive Board provided infor- mation in a focus report on the strategy, status and out- look for the MRO business and the future development of MTU Maintenance Zhuhai. A summary of the results of the review of the efficiency of the Supervisory Board was presented and it was decided to hold a workshop for the Supervisory Board in February 2023 to work on them.
At the meeting held on December 13, 2022, the Super- visory Board undertook a detailed examination of the operational business plans and budget for 2023. The meeting also included a detailed review and confirma- tion of the management’s compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code. Other topics discussed were MTU’s sustainability strategy and the compensation of the Executive Board, especially the status of achievement of the ESG targets set for 2022. As recommended by
the Nomination Committee, the Supervisory Board also resolved that at the Annual General Meeting it would put forward Ute Wolf, former Chief Financial Officer of Evonik Industries AG, as a candidate for the Supervisory Board. In addition, the Supervisory Board approved the Executive Board’s decision to hold the Annual General Meeting 2023 as a virtual meeting.
At its meetings, the Supervisory Board also discussed the legal requirements and the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code regarding Executive Board compensation. The compensation system takes account of sustainability targets and provides for appro- priate and motivating compensation.
Between official meetings, the Chairman of the Super- visory Board was regularly briefed on the company’s current situation, significant business transactions
and important pending decisions. This entailed regular meetings with the Executive Board, including consulting on strategy, the status of planning, the progress of busi- ness, the company’s risk situation, the risk management system and compliance.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
Corporate governance
The Supervisory Board is convinced that MTU’s suc- cess is based, among other factors, on good corporate governance. For this reason, in 2022 the Supervisory Board once again looked in detail at the application and implementation of the German Corporate Governance Code, based on the current version of April 28, 2022. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly discusses the composition of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board with a view to diversity and the appropriate inclu- sion of women.
The Supervisory Board’s rules of procedure contain binding provisions for dealing with conflicts of interest. Such conflicts must be disclosed and, where appropriate, may result in termination of the member’s term of office. This also applies for proposals for election submitted to the Annual General Meeting. There were no conflicts of interest in the reporting period. With the exception of
a consulting agreement between a Supervisory Board member and one of the company’s suppliers, there were no consulting agreements, contracts for services or similar contractual agreements between members of the Supervisory Board and MTU Aero Engines AG or any of its subsidiaries, or with customers, suppliers, lenders
or other third parties in 2022. If there are any discus- sions or resolutions affecting this supplier in future, the Supervisory Board member concerned will not take part in them. There were no such discussions or resolutions in the reporting period.
The Supervisory Board also undertook a detailed ex- amination of the recommendations of the GCGC on the independence of the members representing the share- holders. The Supervisory Board deems all of its members to be independent. This expressly applies to the employ- ee representatives and to Dr. Rainer Martens, who ceased to be a member of MTU’s Executive Board at the end of 2017. Moreover, it applies to Dr. Jürgen M. Geißinger
and Dr. Joachim Rauhut, who have been members of the Supervisory Board for more than 12 years. Consequently, all Supervisory Board committees consist exclusively of independent members. The Supervisory Board has set four terms of office as the maximum for membership of the Supervisory Board and considers this to be appropri- ate for MTU. Members of the Supervisory Board under- take training on their own responsibility, with support from MTU where necessary. MTU may also defray the costs of training. In fiscal 2022, MTU provided support by arranging presentations on Germany’s Second Act on Equal Participation of Men and Women in Management Positions (FüPoG II), the German Act on Strengthening Financial Market Integrity (FISG) and on developments in the fields of cybersecurity and artificial intelligence.
In consultation with the Executive Board, the Supervi- sory Board ensures long-term succession planning for
/ Report of the Supervisory Board
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 12
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
appointments to the Executive Board. To this end, the Supervisory Board regularly reviews the present term of all Executive Board contracts, taking into account, in all cases, the age of each member and the competency profile of potential candidates.
There is an onboarding process for new members of the Supervisory Board. This gives them a thorough insight into MTU’s product portfolio, strategy, corporate gover- nance and how the Supervisory Board works.
The Supervisory Board regularly assesses how effectively the Supervisory Board as a whole and its committees perform their tasks. In 2022, the Supervisory Board con- ducted a self-assessment of the work in plenary session, with the aid of an external consultant. This took the form of a questionnaire and individual interviews with each Supervisory Board member and the Executive Board. The topics covered included, in particular, strategy, structures and processes, culture, composition, leadership and ESG. Benchmarking against a selected peer group of companies was also used. The results were discussed with the Super- visory Board at a separate workshop. They form the basis for the ongoing development of the work of the Superviso- ry Board and its profile of skills and expertise as well as for the final assessment by the Supervisory Board, that its work was, and still is, performed efficiently.
In 2022, the Audit Committee also performed anoth-
er self-assessment. This comprised a questionnaire developed by an external firm of lawyers. The focal areas of this self-assessment were the qualifications and organization of the committee and oversight of financial reporting and auditing, and the internal auditing and risk management system. The Audit Committee also assessed its efficiency as good in 2022.
Cooperation between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, and among the members of the Supervi- sory Board, in the past fiscal year was judged to be very good. No conflicts of interest arose between MTU and any member of its Executive Board or Supervisory Board.
In a joint declaration with the Executive Board dated De- cember 13, 2022, in accordance with the requirements of Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the Supervisory Board states that MTU Aero Engines AG complies with all the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC) in the version
dated April 28, 2022. This declaration of conformity is reproduced in this Annual Report in the section of the management report headed “Corporate governance state- ment,” together with a more detailed description of the company’s corporate governance system. The declaration has also been posted on the MTU website. In addition, the company observes all suggestions made in the German Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
Committee meetings
By convention, the Supervisory Board has three commit- tees with equal numbers of employee and shareholder representatives: an Audit Committee, a Personnel Com- mittee and – in compliance with Section 27 (3) of the German Codetermination Act (MitbestG) – a Mediation Committee. Each of these committees presents regular reports on its activities at the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board.
A Nomination Committee, which meets on an ad hoc basis, has been set up in accordance with the recom- mendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. The task of the Nomination Committee is to find suitable candidates for election to the Supervisory Board. Its members are Gordon Riske (Chairman, since May 5, 2022) / Klaus Eberhardt (until May 4, 2022) and Dr. Jürgen M. Geißinger. In 2022, the Nomination Committee held one meeting in the form of a video conference.
The Personnel Committee comprises Gordon Riske (Chairman, since May 5, 2022) / Klaus Eberhardt (until May 4, 2022), Dr. Jürgen M. Geißinger and two employ- ee representatives, Josef Mailer and Roberto Armellini (until July 31, 2022) / Danielle Frijia (since August 17, 2022). Among other things, it deals with the employment contracts of Executive Board members, including their compensation and the recommendation of candidates. The Personnel Committee convened four times in 2022, with one meeting held in hybrid format (with some mem- bers attending in person while others took part by video link; the total attendance rate at meetings of the commit- tee was 93.8% as one member was unable to attend an extraordinary meeting). Issues examined included the short-term incentive (STI) payable to the members of the Executive Board for 2021, the definition of targets for
the award of STI payments to Executive Board members for 2022, including the targets and bandwidths for the ESG criteria, and the recommendation to the Supervisory Board for the appointment and compensation of mem- bers of the Executive Board.
The Mediation Committee, whose members are identical with those of the Personnel Committee, did not have to convene in 2022.
The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Joachim Rauhut (Chairman), Dr. Christine Bortenlänger, Heike Madan and Josef Mailer. It held six routine meetings and one extraordinary meeting in the year under review. Two of the meetings were video conferences and one was held in hybrid format (some members attended in person, others took part via video link). Attendance was 100%.
The Audit Committee focused on reviewing the annual fi- nancial statements, the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report, including the
    / Report of the Supervisory Board
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 13
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
non-financial statement of the MTU Group and MTU Aero Engines AG as well as the company’s net assets, financial position and results of operations, and the annual and half-year reports and quarterly statements. In addition, it prepared the Supervisory Board’s proposal to the Annual General Meeting on the appointment of the auditor. Further, it was responsible for engaging the auditor,
the agreement with the auditor on the audit fees, and for specifying the key areas of focus for the audit of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements for 2022.
The Audit Committee oversaw the quality of the audit and the independence of the auditor. To this end, it obtained the auditor’s statement of independence in ac- cordance with Section 107 (3) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).
Furthermore, the Audit Committee discussed the addi- tional services provided by the auditor. The procedure for procuring the non-audit services provided by the audi- tors was reviewed and affirmed and the content and fees for such services in the reporting period were approved on a case-by-case basis.
At four of its seven meetings and through additional direct discussions between the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the auditor, the Audit Committee ob- tained reports from the auditor on its audit strategy and approach, the audit process, especially its effectiveness and progress, and the results of the audit, and asked crit- ical questions. Moreover, it examined the qualification of the persons engaged to conduct the audit and the audi- tor’s general quality assurance concept and its practical application. During the reporting period, the committee supplemented this with publicly available information on the quality controls performed by the auditor and its competitors.
The committee and other members of the Supervisory Board received the audit reports from Ernst & Young for their deliberations. These documents were reviewed in detail in the presence of the auditor. On this basis, the committee recommended that the Supervisory Board should adopt the financial statements and consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2022, and approve the combined management report and the Executive Board’s profit distribution proposal.
In accordance with statutory requirements, the Au-
dit Committee monitored the accounting process, the accounting-related internal control and risk management system and the internal auditing system, which it judged to be effective. It oversaw the company’s compliance activities and received reports from the internal auditors. The Audit Committee received reports from the heads of
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
the Corporate Audit and Compliance unit and on related party transactions. No material weaknesses were estab- lished in the internal control system for the accounting process or system for early identification of risks.
Other items examined by the Audit Committee were the tender for the audit engagement, including recommend- ing a candidate to the Supervisory Board, the EMIR audit for fiscal 2021, MTU’s currency hedging model, aircraft financing and the current status of ongoing campaigns. In addition, the committee obtained an update on the status of non-financial reporting and the organization of accounting and on the ongoing development of the risk management system and the internal control system.
Adoption of the annual financial statements, the approved consolidated financial statements and the management report
The annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and combined management report of the MTU Group and MTU Aero Engines AG for 2022 were audited by Ernst & Young, Munich, whose appointment was approved by the Annual General Meeting. Ernst & Young issued an unqualified audit opinion. This was signed by Christian Baur and Gerhard Stummer, who have audited MTU since 2021 and 2020, respectively. The audit reports and documents to be reviewed were submitted in good time to all members of the Superviso- ry Board. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported to the Supervisory Board on the audit performed by Ernst & Young. On this basis, the Supervisory Board conducted a thorough review of the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and the combined management report, including the non-finan- cial statement of the MTU Group and MTU Aero Engines AG for 2022 and the Executive Board’s proposal for the distribution of the net profit. The auditor attended the meeting of the Audit Committee of MTU Aero Engines AG on March 14, 2023, and the meeting held by the Super- visory Board on March 21, 2023 to discuss the financial statements, and presented the main findings of the audit. The Supervisory Board reviewed the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, combined management report including the non-financial state- ment, and the profit distribution proposal, and raised
no objections. The company’s annual financial state- ments and consolidated financial statements for 2022, as submitted by the Executive Board, were approved at the Supervisory Board’s meeting on March 21, 2023. The annual financial statements are therefore adopted. The Supervisory Board agreed to the Executive Board’s proposal for the distribution of the net profit after giving due consideration to the interests of the company and its shareholders. A dividend payment of €3.20 per share
/ Report of the Supervisory Board
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 14
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
eligible for the dividend will therefore be proposed to the Annual General Meeting.
Changes in the governing bodies
With the agreement of the Supervisory Board, the company’s CEO, Reiner Winkler, terminated his contract at year-end 2022 for personal reasons. The Supervisory Board thanks Reiner Winkler, who played a key role during more than two decades and has ensured that MTU is now an extremely well-positioned company with excellent future prospects. Lars Winkler, Chief Operating Officer, was appointed unanimously as new CEO effective January 1, 2023. Dr. Silke Maurer became the new Chief Operating Officer (COO) on February 1, 2023.
There were two changes on the Supervisory Board in 2022. On the employees’ side there was one change: Roberto Armellini was a member of the Supervisory Board until July 31, 2022; Daniele Frijia has been a member since August 17, 2022. The Supervisory Board thanks Roberto Armellini for his work. On the share- holders’ side, as announced in 2020, Klaus Eberhardt stepped down from the Supervisory Board at the end of the company’s Annual General Meeting on May 5, 2022. The Supervisory Board thanks Klaus Eberhardt for his many years of service and his enormous commitment. Gordon Riske, former CEO of KION GROUP AG is the new Chairman of the Supervisory Board of MTU Aero Engines AG. He was elected to the Supervisory Board at the company’s Annual General Meeting on May 5, 2022 with 97.46% of the votes. The Supervisory Board then elected him as Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Exec- utive Board for its close and constructive collabora- tion. It would also like to thank all employees and the Works Council for their successful work and enormous commitment in 2022. Moreover, the Supervisory Board is grateful to all MTU’s shareholders for the trust they place in the company.
Munich, March 21, 2023
Gordon Riske
Chairman of the Supervisory Board
 / Report of the Supervisory Board
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG
I FISCAL YEAR 2022 15
  
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
IT risks
COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
In addition to the risk that the MTU might not be able to recruit enough skilled workers, there is a risk of losing staff to other companies. The company is of the opinion that some MTU employees have technological know- how that makes them attractive to competitors or other employers. MTU’s success depends on its ability, not simply to employ technically skilled specialists, but also to retain them over the long term, motivate them and support their personal and professional development.
Failure to recruit, retain and drive forward the develop- ment of qualified employees could impair MTU’s ability to realize its planned business performance.
All in all, MTU considers the human resources risks to be manageable, especially in light of the measures taken to control them.
Risks arising from general, customs and tax legislation
(Compliance risks, governance risks, country risks, business environment risks)
Complex and in some cases conflicting international foreign trade and tax regulations, especially with regard to cross-border trade in goods and services in the indus- trial and defense sectors, mean that MTU is particularly exposed to violation of legal provisions. To compensate for relevant legal risks, processes that reinforce control are monitored and driven forward by central functions with technical and managerial authority. Identifiable risks arising from pending tax audits, customs audits, export controls and legal proceedings are managed by the central departments with the support of indepen- dent external consultants. The focus lies in particular
on targeting process weaknesses and compensating for them. All in all, MTU considers the risks arising from general, customs, export control and tax legislation to be manageable, especially in light of the measures taken to control them.
Overall assessment of MTU’s risk exposure
Risks in each of the key areas of exposure described above are monitored and continuously evaluated through a risk assessment for the coming fiscal year on the basis of their probability of occurrence and quantified as a deviation relative to the currently applicable operational planning figures. In MTU’s risk management process, risks are assigned to one of four probability levels. Based on quantifiable risks (>€5 million) evaluated in the risk management process, for fiscal 2023, MTU derives risk- based earnings exposure based on experience of around €85 million. The OEM segment accounts for around €65
(IT risks, communication risks)
MTU constantly monitors its risk situation in the area
of data processing. The two risks considered to be most critical in this field are system crashes due to technical faults and cyberattacks, resulting in the non-availability of systems, unauthorized disclosure of information, or permanent loss of data. In view of the advanced digita- lization of all material business processes at MTU, high availability and integrity of IT systems are crucial for smooth business operation. MTU generates, stores and processes extensive data with special confidentiality requirements – not only, but in particular, in the military business.
MTU constantly invests considerable sums in technical and organizational measures to guarantee the availabil- ity, confidentiality and integrity of the IT systems used or operated by the company. Nevertheless, it cannot
be ruled out that MTU will be confronted with system failures, unauthorized access to confidential information or the loss of data. Every data theft, unauthorized data manipulation or data loss could negatively affect MTU’s relationship to present or potential customers. Incidents like this could expose MTU to liability claims by third parties. All in all, MTU considers the IT risks to be manageable, especially in light of the measures taken to control them.

TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
million of this and the MRO segment for the remainder. In addition to the earnings impact, the liquidity impact of the risks is identified, monitored and addressed through the risk management process. In 2023, the identified risk factors could reduce liquidity by approximately €180 million. However, this would be covered by available cash and cash equivalents and by credit lines that have not been drawn down. €131 million of this amount relates to the OEM segment.
Both segments’ risk exposure principally comprises market and program risks. In the OEM segment, the mar- ket and program risks relate to risk-and-revenue-sharing contracts with OEM partners and include the risk of adverse effects from the development of the business if capacities and the supply of parts required to meet high- er maintenance requirements for the GTF fleet cannot be increased sufficiently fast. Similarly, there is uncertainty regarding the export of military equipment. In the MRO segment, further demand effects in connection with the forecast market recovery have to be taken into account as further risk drivers. The estimated impact of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic on business development in 2023 has been taken into consideration in the segment planning.
Apart from the risks quantified above, MTU monitors and manages further risks associated with development, production, maintenance and procurement that were not quantifiable as of the reporting date. At present,
the Executive Board does not see any risks that could jeopardize MTU’s status as a going concern. All in all, the Executive Board considers the risk situation to be manageable, especially in light of the risk management system and the measures taken to control the risks.
Opportunity report
The integrated opportunity and risk management system is embedded in the value-oriented management of the Group and its organizational structures and is based on the leading international standard, the COSO II Enter- prise Risk Management Framework.
Market and program opportunities
Basic research and ongoing development of engine technologies, followed by their deployment in end products, have made MTU one of the world’s leading manufacturers of engine components. MTU’s new prod- ucts lead the field in terms of efficiency because they save fuel and reduce emissions, noise and costs. MTU has achieved market success with the Pratt & Whitney GTFTM engine family, which it develops in partnership
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
with Pratt & Whitney. The A320neo, Airbus A220 and Embraer E190-E2 with GTF engines are already being used successfully in scheduled service. Since 2018, the PW800 engine family, developed in cooperation with Pratt & Whitney Canada, which is based on the same core engine as the GTF, has powered premium manufac- turer Gulfstream’s new generation of business jets. In order to balance out its engine portfolio in the long-haul segment, MTU has participated in the development of the GE9X, which will be the sole engine for the Boeing 777X. Thanks to this balanced portfolio, MTU expects to benefit in the decades ahead from the predicted growth in all present market segments: the regional jet, narrowbody and widebody segments. The expected growth relates to both commercial series and new components business and the spare parts and aftermarket business, which should benefit, in particular, from the business perfor- mance of the V2500 engine programs and successively from the GTF program family.
Among its customers in the military sector, MTU has established a reputation as a highly qualified partner with comprehensive system know-how in product devel- opment, manufacturing and maintenance. In particular by driving forward its military-engine maintenance services with the German air force, MTU sees chances to strengthen its ties with Germany’s armed forces.
In addition, the official start of the FCAS program in the reporting period and additional new components and aftermarket business – especially for the EJ200 engine for the Eurofighter and the TP400-D6 for the A400M military transporter – open up further business opportu- nities with national and international customers. These will doubtless receive a further boost from the increase in international defense budgets resulting from the geo- political developments in the reporting period.
Driven in particular by the T408 engine, the military-pro- gram partnership with GE Aerospace could generate further opportunities to participate in transatlantic programs in the future.
The development of the maintenance business in the aviation industry, in which MRO services are increas- ingly being offered together with engine sales contracts, gives MTU the opportunity, as a consortium partner, to develop customer loyalty in the commercial maintenance segment and soften the impact of risks associated with the spare parts market. This integrated approach to MRO enables program partners to become members of an MRO network, giving them access to the entire volume of
/ Risk and opportunity report
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 88
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MRO work associated with an engine series, in accor- dance with their share in the program. There is a variety of models for participating. For instance, partners in the MRO network might only perform repairs on their own components, or be allocated a quota of complete shop visits corresponding to their program share. Membership in an MRO network offers more moderate margins than operating as an independent MRO provider.
The independent MRO market for engines such as the GE90 and V2500 continues to offer long-term prospects for MRO providers to participate in this steadily grow- ing market. In particular, the increase in the number of aircraft no longer tied to the OEMs offers independent MRO providers like MTU the opportunity to gain new customers and to assume responsibility for managing the maintenance of large fleets.
Continued investment in automation and the focused in- crease in maintenance capacity, for instance through the establishment of MTU Maintenance Serbia d. o. o. and EME Aero Sp. z. o. o., will enable MTU to meet the high demand in both the OEM and MRO segments cost-effec- tively in the long term.
Through MTU Maintenance Lease Services B. V., Amster- dam, Netherlands, MS Engine Leasing LLC, Rocky Hill, CT, USA, and the partner companies in the PW1100G- JM MRO network, MTU aims to extend its activities in the lucrative leasing business and increase the scope of services provided in the aftermarket.
Research and development opportunities
The risk report describes the risks associated with re- search and development and manufacturing, but MTU’s ongoing technology and development activities also open up new business opportunities. For example, ongoing development of products and the related manufacturing technologies and, in particular, intensive involvement in developing innovative propulsion concepts in collabora- tion with industrial, public-sector and scientific partners, pave the way for MTU to secure a position as a strategic partner in future engine programs. This could help en- sure a balanced portfolio of engines and new propulsion concepts at different life cycle phases both in the series and new components business and in the spare parts and aftermarket business. Attention should be drawn
to MTU’s participation in the FCAS program in the reporting period as this can be regarded as an important driver of the ongoing development MTU’s technological expertise for the aviation sector.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
The risk report refers to the challenges involved in ramping up new or relatively new programs; here too, the challenges can be transformed into opportunities. Production processes and systems can be optimized,
for example through the use of digital twins, predictive simulation (ICM2E), process data management and the forecasts derived from this, and new, cutting-edge manu- facturing technologies and processes can be introduced. The risk analyses undertaken to secure the ramp-up of production, backed up by the MRL process and design or process FMEA, result in timely identification of potential problems and the related lasting process improvements. The effects of these improvements are not only felt in new programs; they can also be transposed to existing ones. That leads, for example, to further cost reductions and enhanced delivery reliability. The spread of additive manufacturing techniques (3D printing of components) opens up new possibilities for application-optimized com- ponent design and cost benefits in their production.
Through continuous improvements towards operational excellence, methods, processes and leadership behavior are constantly being developed as part of Lean Manage- ment@MTU. This results in increased transparency, a focus on value creation, support in achieving ambitious targets, and faster and more sustainable problem-solving and approaches to improvement. Improved preventive approaches, a faster response to deviations from plan and sustainable and structured solutions to problems enable the company to put in place stable processes and optimize resource deployment. For further information, please refer to the section headed “Research and develop- ment.”
Other opportunities
As a large part of the company’s revenue comes from contracts invoiced in U.S. dollars, especially in the com- mercial new engines and series business (OEM) and the commercial spare parts and aftermarket business (OEM, MRO), a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro would improve MTU’s earnings. If there is a stabilization or short-term drop in inflation, especially in the areas
of energy and raw material prices, this would have a positive effect on MTU’s cost structure and hence on its business results.
See the Risk report for information on how the opportuni- ties identified can be exploited and the associated risks avoided.
   / Risk and opportunity report
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 89
 
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Main features of the internal control and risk management system
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
Internal control and risk management system
MTU understands an Internal Control System (ICS) to be the principles, procedures and measures introduced at the company by its management that are aimed at the organizational implementation of management decisions.
The risk management system (RMS) is a continuous
and systematic process that has to be applied uniformly throughout the Group to ensure early identification, eva- luation, management, monitoring and reporting of risks. The overriding objective is to safeguard the existence of the company and its future success.
The ICS and RMS are based on the globally recognized and established framework of the Committee of Sponso- ring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO I) and the applicable requirements and basic elements of the audit standards issued by the German Institute of Public Auditors (IDW PS 981 and 982).
The Executive Board of MTU bears overall responsibility for establishing the ICS and RMS. They are aligned to the business model and specific requirements of the MTU Group and are an important element in its comprehen- sive approach to corporate governance. This comprises
a framework for creating sustainable value for sharehol- ders, customers, employees and society.
All MTU entities are included in the ICS and RMS. The local management of each entity is responsible for reali- zing an appropriate and effective ICS and RMS, based on the Group-wide requirements, and is supported in this by the central divisions.
The Risk Management Board, which is comprised of MTU’s highest risk manager and selected heads of vari- ous functional areas, is an overarching decision-making body that examines aspects of risk management, discus- ses and takes decisions on reported risks or those that have to be reported to the Executive Board, and oversees the functioning of the risk management system.
MTU’s internal audit function, which is process-indepen- dent, plays an important role in checking the effective- ness of, and improving, the ICS and RMS. It regularly assesses, and helps to enhance, the controlling and moni- toring systems. It is also considered to have an advisory function, contributing to improving business processes and, ultimately, the effectiveness of the ICS. The rules
of procedure of the internal audit function comply with national and international requirements as laid down
/ Main features of the internal control and risk management system
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 91
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
by the Deutsches Institut für Interne Revision and the Institute of Internal Auditors. The internal audit function is also bound by the code of professional ethics. The ad- ministrative standards of the internal audit function are accessible to all employees on MTU’s intranet.
The Executive Board regularly assess the ICS and RMS at the end of each fiscal year. In 2022, this assessment was based on the analyses and audits performed by the rele- vant units, Internal Audit and external consultants du- ring the reporting period. The findings were discussed in detail at meetings of the Executive Board and the Audit Committee and measures were introduced for continuous optimization, especially to harmonize the documentati- on. Based on this, the Executive Board did not identify any indication that the ICS or RMS was inappropriate or ineffective as of December 31, 2022.
The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board discus- ses risk management and the audits by the internal audit function. In accordance with Section 107 (3) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), as amended by the German Accounting Law Modernization Act (Bil- MoG), it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the RMS, the ICS, the internal auditing systems, the financial reporting process and the audit of the financial statements.
Compliance Management System
The ICS and RMS also include a compliance management system (CMS), which is aligned to the company’s risk situation.
MTU’s compliance management system is based on the requirements of the IDW AsS 980 assurance standard published by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany and the Good Practice Guidance on Internal Controls, Ethics, and Compliance issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
As the highest decision-making authority, the CEO bears the responsibility for the company’s business ethics and anti-corruption policy. The central functions responsible for ensuring compliance are a Group-wide Compliance Officer and the Compliance Board.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
MTU has implemented a number of measures with regard to its organizational structures and processes to minimize these risks and to safeguard compliance. In particular, central offices with managerial authority have been set up to monitor and enforce compliance with laws and regulations in the individual divisions (for instance, the Quality division is responsible for compliance with aviation authority regulations, while the Environmen-
tal Protection/Occupational Health and Safety division ensures that environmental protection regulations are adhered to). Above and beyond that, measures have been put in place at the company level to minimize the risks associated with compliance issues:
The corporate culture at MTU is characterized by trust and mutual respect. The observance of legal and ethical rules and principles plays a central role in this respect. They are defined in a Code of Conduct, which embo- dies MTU’s corporate culture and reflects its resolve
to comply strictly with the relevant laws and internal regulations. It is a Group-wide guide to ethical business relations.
The Compliance Officer submits quarterly reports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Com- mittee, which in turn reports to the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee oversees the Executive Board’s compliance activities. The company has established a global whist- leblower system that allows employees and external stakeholders to report suspected cases of misconduct confidentially to the Compliance Officer.
MTU strives to continuously develop its compliance system. That includes raising employees’ awareness of compliance-related matters.
Description of the principal features of the accounting-related ICS and RMS
The current recommendations of German Accounting Standard (GAS) 20 have been applied in this section of the combined management report concerning the main features of the accounting-related internal control and risk management system.
/ Main features of the internal control and risk management system
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 92
  
TO OUR COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT
Objectives and components
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
Main features
MTU’s Executive Board, Supervisory Board and Audit ⁄ Committee attach the greatest importance to ensuring
the regularity, accuracy and reliability of MTU’s financial reporting. The accounting-related internal control and
risk management system applicable for the MTU Group’s financial statements helps ensure systematic compliance
with these internal and external accounting require- ⁄ ments.
MTU has a clearly defined management and corpo- rate structure. Key cross-organizational functions
are coordinated centrally by the Group accounting department. At the same time, the subsidiaries have sufficient independence and are responsible for finan- cial reporting.
Appropriate guidelines (e.g., accounting principles / financial reporting guidelines) are in place and are updated as required. The Group accounting depart- ment is the central point of contact for questions on financial reporting at Group level or at individual sub- sidiaries and joint ventures and has the right to issue instructions within its area of responsibility.
⁄ The accounting-related risk management system (RMS) is an integral part of the Group’s company- wide risk management system. It forms the basis for the uniform and appropriate handling of risks and
for communicating them within the Group. The risks inherent in the Group’s financial reporting are among the corporate risks to be monitored as a whole.
⁄ The design of the accounting-related internal control system (ICS) at MTU meets the requirements of the German Accounting Law Modernization Act (BilMoG), the definition provided by the Institute of Public Au- ditors in Germany (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer e.V. – IDW), the internationally recognized and established framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organiza- tions of the Treadway Commission (COSO I), and the features specific to MTU. MTU understands an ICS to be the principles, procedures and measures introdu- ced at the company by its management that are aimed at the organizational implementation of management decisions:
■ to safeguard the effectiveness and economic efficiency of business operations – which includes protecting the company’s assets,
■ to ensure the regularity and reliability of internal and external accounting, and
■ to comply with statutory regulations relevant to the company.
⁄ Preparation and quality assurance for the financial data communicated by the Group companies for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements are undertaken on a decentralized basis by the respective finance departments on the basis of the Group-wide reporting guidelines.
⁄ As a supplementary control measure, (plausibility) and quality control checks on the reported data are carried out by the Group accounting department and during the consolidation process for the consolidated financial statements.
⁄ To safeguard and enhance the integrity and respon- sibility of all employees, including with respect to financial reporting, all employees are required to give an undertaking that they will observe the Group-wide Code of Conduct and the applicable internal regulati- ons (e.g., the financial reporting guidelines).
⁄ The (professional) qualifications of staff employed in the finance function are regarded as important for the quality of the Group’s accounting process and are monitored and driven forward by the management team. The departments and other organizational units involved in the accounting process are suitably equip- ped and regularly trained both in quantitative and qualitative terms. In this context, the structure and workflows are regularly reviewed with the support
of external consultants and by comparison with peer group companies.
/ Main features of the internal control and risk management system
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 93
  

  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As a result of this process, for 2022, nine topics were defined as relevant for the non-financial statement in accordance with the German CSR Directive Implemen- tation Act (CSR-RUG). CSR-RUG requires the provision
of relevant non-financial information on the business performance, operating results and position of the Group. Information is also required on the impact of its busi- ness activities on the following aspects: environmental matters, employee matters, social matters, human rights, combating corruption as well as possible additional aspects. As one such additional aspect, the non-financial statement contains information on product quality and flight safety. The non-financial statement contains one change in the key topics relating to the reporting period: Energy management has been given a higher weighting and merged into “Climate protection at the production locations” because CO2 emissions from the operation
of MTU’s sites (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) mainly result from the use of energy. The materiality evaluation of the topics was discussed and confirmed by the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee.
[T38] Contents of the non-financial statement
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
company. The Munich, Hanover and Ludwigsfelde sites provide information on their environmental impact and activities in annual environmental declarations.
MTU is committed to the global sustainability initiative, UN Global Compact, and its ten principles including res- pect for human rights, fair working conditions, protecting the environment and fighting corruption. In addition, the company is represented on relevant initiatives such as the TRACE International anti-corruption initiative.
Risk management for non-financial topics
Risk identification and evaluation for the topics covered by the non-financial statement are based on MTU’s established opportunity and risk management. The po- tential risks to the environment, society and employees resulting from MTU’s business activities are compiled and evaluated quarterly by the responsible staff in the departments and the CR Board analogously to the estab- lished opportunity and risk process, taking into account, in each case, the probability of occurrence and impact of the risk. In this process, the risk inventory is reviewed for new material topics and aspects.
To supplement the risk management process, MTU
has established a compliance system with a separate reporting line. It is organized and managed by the Com- pliance Officer.
The risk analysis did not reveal any reportable risks with a high probability of having a severe negative impact on the identified non-financial topics.
Product quality and flight safety
Quality and safety are of paramount importance in aviation and the corresponding framework conditions
are strictly regulated. Legal requirements for the safe operation of flights are closely monitored by the aviation authorities. This is reflected in the high importance MTU places on product quality and flight safety. The company has to comply with the legal requirements imposed upon it as a development, manufacturing and maintenance organization in the aviation industry. MTU continuously evaluates the regulatory requirements for its business activities in order to obtain or keep the required licenses, approvals and certifications from the aviation authorities.
A Group-wide integrated management system (IMS) ensures compliance with regulatory requirements and internal regulations as well as clear assignment of responsibilities within the company. One principle of the IMS policy is that “Safety takes priority in what we do.” The basic framework is enshrined in a management manual that is binding for all employees and managers across the Group. Corporate Quality is a separate orga-
  Aspect in accordance with
the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR-RUG)
Additional aspect Environmental matters
Combating bribery and corruption Employee matters
Respect for human rights
Key topics for MTU
Product quality and flight safety
Climate impact
of aircraft engines
Climate change mitigation at the production sites
Prevention of bribery and corruption
Occupational safety Employee development
Respecting the human rights of employees
Respect for human rights in the supply chain
Responsible international trade
                Under the CSR-RUG definition of materiality, no rele- vant topics have been identified for the aspect of social matters.
Involving stakeholders
MTU is also engaged in dialogue with external stake- holders regarding environmental and social impacts. Stakeholders can give feedback on MTU’s sustainability management via an online survey. There are also perso- nal and anonymous reporting channels that stakeholders can use to submit complaints and grievances to the
/ Non-financial statement
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 101
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
As the highest decision-making authority, the CEO bears the responsibility for the company’s business ethics and anti-corruption policy. The central functions responsible for ensuring compliance are a Group-wide Compliance Officer and the Compliance Board. The Compliance Officer is responsible, in particular, for ongoing develop- ment of MTU’s established compliance system to prevent corruption. He works in close consultation with the Com- pliance Board. The Compliance Board holds both regular and ad-hoc meetings at the invitation of the Compliance Officer. The Compliance Officer submits quarterly reports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee, which in turn reports to the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee oversees the Executive Board’s compliance activities. In addition, the Compliance Officer has a regular direct reporting line to the CEO.
The company has established a global whistleblower system that allows employees and external stakeholders to report suspected cases of misconduct confidentially to the Compliance Officer. As well as the scope to seek personal contact, the web-based iTrust system can be used to submit reports anonymously. The Compliance Officer examines all allegations received and manages the necessary measures if they prove founded.
Zero tolerance of bribery and corruption
MTU’s goal is to prevent bribery and corruption throug- hout the Group (principle of zero tolerance). To minimize corruption risks, all sales-related consultancy contracts are reviewed by the Compliance Officer, where relevant with the assistance of external service providers, before they are concluded or renewed. The Corporate Audit unit examines the legal conformity of business processes and compliance with internal guidelines through regular audits.
There were no confirmed cases of corruption in the reporting period.
External standards and memberships
MTU’s compliance management system is based on
the requirements of assurance standard IDW AsS 980 published by the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany and the Good Practice Guidance on Internal Controls, Ethics, and Compliance issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). It has also signed the standards issued by the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe (ASD), which aim to prevent bribery and corruption and encourage
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
fair and equal competition. In Germany, this initiative
is led by the German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI). Moreover, these standards are a binding element of contracts with sales consultants.
Continuous development of the compliance system
MTU strives to continuously develop its compliance system. That includes raising employees’ awareness of compliance-related matters, for example, with the aid
of training materials on the Code of Conduct. Training with these new training materials, which were introdu- ced in 2021, continued in the reporting period. 3,131 employees had taken part by year-end 2022. In addition, mandatory anti-corruption training is regularly held for managers and employees in specific functions such as sales. In the reporting period, routine corruption pre- vention training was organized for relevant employees in maintenance sales.
Occupational safety
MTU places a great deal of importance on the safety of its employees. Employee health and safety are included in the Group-wide Code of Conduct as key principles of corporate social responsibility. The Code of Conduct also specifies that workplaces must meet statutory and generally recog- nized industrial health and safety standards. In addition, MTU has an internal standard that contains generally valid parameters, rules and definitions of performance in- dicators. Quarterly Group-wide reporting to the Executive Board is established. Occupational safety is organized on
a decentralized basis at MTU and the sites are respon- sible for implementing the relevant requirements. At the company’s production sites, occupational safety is the responsibility of the site management and occupational safety officers are appointed at management level. The responsible local departments implement site-specific occupational safety requirements and report regularly to the site management. The company’s production sites in Germany, Poland and Canada have local occupational safety committees, which include representatives of the workforce.
Occupational safety is part of MTU’s integrated manage- ment system (IMS) and is regularly reviewed and driven forward. At the European production sites, workplace regulations that are mandatory for all employees contain important safety rules pertaining to accident prevention, fire protection and what to do in the event of workplace or commuting accidents.
/ Non-financial statement
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 107
  
TO OUR COMBINED CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A code of conduct for suppliers is in place to cover the upstream value chain. MTU’s suppliers are required to give an undertaking that they will comply with this Code of Conduct for MTU Suppliers, which is based on the
ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The Code of Conduct requires suppliers to respect and apply human rights, and to make sure that they are not complicit in human rights violations. In particular,
it requires observance of labor standards relating to freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the ban on forced and child labor, equal pay regardless
of gender and the equal treatment of employees. MTU also expects its suppliers to obtain a corresponding undertaking from sub-suppliers and reserves the right
to terminate any contract with a supplier without notice if the supplier uses child labor in the production process for its deliveries. In addition, these principles of behavior are contained in the general business conditions and the contractual documents for suppliers.
Suppliers to the sites in Germany, Poland and Canada and the subsidiary MTU Aero Engines North America are subject to a regular risk analysis. This takes account of MTU-specific product groups and the countries where they are sourced, based on the evaluation in the Walk Free Foundation’s Global Slavery Index. This risk ana- lysis is integrated into the established risk process for suppliers. As a further step, there are plans to monitor significant suppliers’ compliance with sustainability cri- teria. For this purpose, MTU has established and started to roll out an ESG assessment tool (ESG = environmen- tal, social, governance). A pilot project to monitor the sustainability performance of OEM suppliers has started. In addition, at MTU Maintenance, a structured supplier evaluation is performed twice a year for suppliers to the German sites.
Various measures are used to achieve the goal of ensu- ring that human rights are respected in the supply chain. These apply, above all, to the procurement of tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, which are used in some MTU com- ponents. Procurement of these minerals can be proble- matic because some of them come from Central African mines where the profits may be used specifically to fund armed conflicts that violate human rights. MTU strives
to ensure a sustainable and transparent value chain without these “conflict minerals.” The company does not procure minerals directly but they enter production and pre-production via the global, multi-step supply chain. The general conditions of business and the templates for contracts with MTU suppliers require information on the origin of minerals. This information is compiled using
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT AND ADDITIONAL INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT INFORMATION
the EICC/GeSI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. MTU makes it compulsory for relevant suppliers of components containing minerals declared in the Dodd- Frank Act to provide information once a year on the origin of minerals and specifies that minerals may only be procured from certified mines and smelters (compli- ant smelter list) in order to ensure that the value chain does not contain conflict minerals. Based on its survey in 2022, MTU has no indication that components from its suppliers contain conflict minerals.
Moreover, in the reporting period there were no reported indications that suppliers had violated the human rights provisions of the Code of Conduct for MTU Suppliers. Furthermore, MTU did not have to terminate its relation- ship with any suppliers as a result of breaches of human rights.
The German Act on Corporate Due Diligence Obliga- tions in the Supply Chain (LkSG) will apply to MTU Aero Engines AG from 2023. In the reporting period, an interdisciplinary project team started to prepare for its implementation.
Responsible international trade
Trade compliance plays a vital role for MTU. One impor- tant goal here is to avoid violations of human rights. The provisions of international trade legislation apply to all business units and Group companies, including their em- ployees. Customs and export control laws govern which products, services and technical data MTU is permitted to sell or pass on to whom, for what purpose and where. Compliance with customs legislation and international trade regulations is explicitly stipulated in MTU’s Code of Conduct.
Export control law prohibits doing business with specific countries or individuals, and the supply of sensitive goods, transfer of advanced technologies, and provision of military services without explicit authorization by the respective official bodies. This is intended, in particular, to prevent the proliferation of nuclear, biological and che- mical weapons, to prevent the supply of military goods or goods that can be used for military purposes to crisis regions, to prevent support for blacklisted individuals and activities that violate human rights, and to protect sovereign security interests. Under customs regulati- ons, MTU is required to provide a precise description, detailed itemization and accurate declaration of the value of all goods intended for import or export. What is more, anti-boycott laws may prohibit individuals and entities from participating in other countries’ economic boycotts and restrict the dissemination of information relating to business activities or individuals.
/ Non-financial statement
ANNUAL REPORT MTU AERO ENGINES AG I FISCAL YEAR 2022 112
 
 
