
Compliance violations can cause many different types of damage and can have serious consequences such as the
discontinuation of business relationships, exclusion from contract awards, negative assessments on capital
markets, the imposition of fines, the absorption of profits, claims for damages, and civil or criminal proceedings.
92 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Risks and opportunities
Significant corporate risks
Furthermore, compliance violations that have a high public profile always pose the risk of significant and lasting
damage to the company’s reputation. Customers, shareholders, employees, non-governmental organizations,
rating agencies and also the general public could lose trust in our company. In itself, the examination and
clarification of alleged cases can result in considerable internal and external costs.
Compliance risks can occur in every area of the company. The compliance organization therefore aims to ensure
proper and compliant modes of conduct and behavior on the part of a company and its employees and to make
sure that potential or actual infringements of external or internal regulations are responded to appropriately.
Group-wide structures, stringent regulations and standardized processes are put in place as far as possible to
prevent any liability risks, risks of a penalty or a fine and reputation risks, in addition to other financial
disadvantages, loss or damage that the company may incur as a result of misconduct or violations of the law.
The regular execution of a Group-wide compliance risk assessment (top-down and bottom-up) and additional
regular and case-by-case risk analyses help to identify systemic and company-specific compliance risks. Measures
to introduce or improve international or local structures, guidelines, processes, IT systems and training content
are derived from the results.
However, despite extensive and multi-level inspection and control mechanisms, the possibility of risks arising
from unlawful activities of individual parties cannot be ruled out. Alleged cases are investigated actively. In
investigative proceedings we cooperate with the relevant authorities. Proven misconduct results in consequences
for those involved and – if necessary – to adjustments in the organization. However, the financial impact of
compliance cases on the Group’s results is very difficult to estimate. Depending on the case and the
circumstances, a considerable range is to be assumed.
The introduction in 2018 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) required EU-based companies also
to meet a whole range of obligations concerning data protection. Violations of the GDPR are subject to significant
sanctions, including the imposition of fines totaling up to 4% of the Group’s total global sales. To counter these
risks, we established a Group-wide data security management system (DSMS) to ensure a data protection level
that is structured, secure and, as far as possible, standardized. It defines a range of functions and responsibilities
and undergoes continuous improvement as part of a “plan–do–check–act” cycle. The effectiveness of the DSMS
is monitored on an ongoing basis. Where legally prescribed, data protection officers are appointed in Rheinmetall.
Our employees receive regular instruction and training in matters relating to data protection. The content of data
protection training is adapted for individual departments in line with the specific requirements in their respective
spheres of work. For new employees, this training is an important part of the induction process.
Public perception
In a time in which markets are interconnected and the flow of information is becoming increasingly globalized,
communication is becoming ever more important to the company’s success. Shareholders, customers, lenders,
employees, the media and the public at large are informed regularly, transparently and quickly about our social
and financial status, our key processes and changes as well as the latest news and developments.
In the course of a highly dynamic sustainability debate, the communicative presentation of a medium- and long-
term corporate strategy based on responsible action is crucial for the perception and acceptance of the company
by a broad public. Protecting and building a positive reputation as a central task of communications is considered
essential in order to continue to be recognized and commissioned as a supplier and equipment provider to the
public sector and to be able to survive on the money, credit and capital markets. In particular, the impact of our
communications and other image-building measures on the general (media) public determines how we are
perceived by politicians, administrators, and business and financial players.
Environmental, social, governance
Sustainability risks differ in part from traditional risk assessments in terms of the timescale considered, the
assessment of their impact, but also in perspective. For this reason, the process for sustainability risk reporting
builds on the existing risk management modules, but goes beyond them in parts. This avoids both duplication of
work and double entries while also ensuring comprehensive analysis.
RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 93 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Risks and opportunities
Significant corporate risks
If we do not comply with the increasing regulatory requirements and fail to meet the expectations and
requirements of governments, customers, investors, lenders and other financial institutions in the areas of
environmental and social responsibility and governance (ESG) to the required extent or level of detail, this can
have a negative impact on the Rheinmetall Group’s business and earnings. Customers could potentially refuse to
award contracts to us, private and institutional investors might refuse to include us in their portfolio, and financial
institutes might refuse to issue loans at all or only at an increased cost. We counter these risks through
comprehensive and transparent CSR/ESG reporting based on globally recognized standards such as the Global
Reporting Initiative and – where possible – through continuous improvement of our customer and CSR/ESG ratings
from internationally renowned agencies and institutions (e.g. MSCI, ISS ESG, Sustainalytics, VigeoEiris,
Arabesque, Gaia and CDP).
Furthermore, the passing of legislation or regulations for the finance sector could cause institutional investors to
restructure their portfolios and reduce or terminate their exposures in companies that operate in industries
classed as critical. Possible sector exclusions (e.g. for the weapons and defence industry) could also limit our
options to raise capital. Changes to the qualification criteria for being accepted to or remaining on stock indices
could also harbor risks for our company.

We have consistently demonstrated our responsibility toward our employees and products and toward the
environment and society for over 130 years. Founded in 1889, our technology company - rooted regionally and
globally positioned - with its companies is integrated into the general political, regulatory, economic, ecological
and social conditions of various countries and geographical regions. We are committed to fair competition and to
lawful business conduct that not only shows integrity but is also social and ethical. Sustainable management has
always been an integral component of our business and production processes and helps to secure the long-term
future of our company. In addition to continuity, economic growth and compliance with the fundamental principles
of good corporate governance, the careful use of natural resources is part of our self-image – to the benefit of our
shareholders, our employees, for our locations and for the society in which we have a fixed place as corporate
citizen.
Globally, European and German understanding on key areas, topics and aspects in the Environment, Social and
Governance (ESG) categories may not be equally assessed, weighted and prioritized. Even so, over the past few
years – at the United Nation’s behest and in line with the objectives of the European Union – many countries,
including Germany, have expanded their requirements for companies to take responsibility for upholding
recognized human rights, labor, social, environmental and anti-corruption standards, both within and outside the
bounds of the company. This relates to the impact of business activities on sustainable development in the world
encompassing the entire value-added chain. But customers, shareholders, investors, non-governmental
organizations and – not least – the company’s own employees are also interested in getting a full picture of the
company, its global business activities and their impact on people, the climate, and the environment. Inquiries
from all sections of society are thereby increasing, as are expectations for transparency, scope, level of detail,
informative value and comparability of company data on the very complex issue of sustainability.
Business model
Our world is changing rapidly in every respect – technologically, economically, politically and culturally. We lead
lives that are more global, more connected, more digital than ever before and are constantly faced with new
challenges that have to be overcome.
As a supplier to the automobile industry, the civilian area makes a contribution that people the world over reach
their destinations in a more environmentally friendly manner. In addition to the ongoing development of products
for conventional drives, Rheinmetall is focusing on the development of systems for vehicles powered by hybrids,
batteries, and fuel cells. We shape the mobility of the future with solutions for reduced emissions and electric
drive systems. Outside the traditional automotive sector, we are continuing to pursue our diversification strategy
in the industrial sector.
Hydrogen is considered a key element in the transition to a climate-neutral energy supply of the future. We are
addressing mobile and stationary hydrogen technology applications. The spectrum extends from power
generation derived from renewable energies across hydrogen production to its storage and distribution right up to
its use.
We are a reliable partner for German and international armed and security forces. With its product and capability
spectrum, Rheinmetall is a leading European systems supplier offering innovative, state-of-the-art and threat-
appropriate security technology for military and civilian applications alike. We protect those who protect us all –
against current and future threats.
The Rheinmetall Group’s business model is described in detail under the Basic information on the Rheinmetall
Group” section.
112 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Governance
Governance
This non-financial statement of the Group, which includes all continuing and discontinued business activities,
was prepared in line with the requirements of Sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB.
Pursuant to section 315b(1) sentence 3 HGB, reference is made to the non-financial disclosures included in another
part of the Group management report for more detailed information on individual aspects. We use the standards
of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a reporting basis when preparing the non-financial statement. In this way
we want to ensure transparency and comparability. The fiscal year is the reporting period for the non-financial
statement of the Group, and there is an annual reporting cycle.
Sustainability organization
At Rheinmetall the responsibility for sustainability lies with the Executive Board as a whole. The central area
Corporate Social Responsibility reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). In consultation with the
responsible central department managed by the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, the Executive Board sets
the strategic framework for sustainability activities. In cooperation with the divisional and local sustainability
officers and the Executive Board, the Corporate Social Responsibility department bundles and coordinates the
respective ESG requirements. From this, it develops the sustainability strategy aligned to the Group strategy and
derives the resulting fields of action, measures, targets and indicators.
In addition to the members of the Executive Board, the Corporate Sustainability Board established in October 2021
includes the divisional heads, the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, the heads of Controlling, Compliance,
Strategy, Purchasing, Human Resources, Corporate Communications, the Head of Investor Relations and the two
Chief Technology Officers. The Corporate Sustainability Board deals with current regulatory developments and
trends in the ESG area, as well as with the challenges they pose for Rheinmetall. The members of the board help
to ensure that the interests of our stakeholders are given special consideration. At the annual meeting in
December 2022, the heads of the five divisions, among others, presented the progress made in the area of ESG
during the year and provided an outlook on the measures planned for 2023.
Sustainability also includes a material strategic component. As an interdisciplinary and cross-division topic, ESG
is a fixed element of the activity of the Supervisory Board. For example, the members of the Supervisory Board
deal with current ESG developments, with their importance for the corporation and its stakeholders and the
resulting future challenges and opportunities. The Audit Committee handles not only risk management, but also
the scope and depth of current and future regulatory requirements for sustainability reporting and their
implementation, as well as the processes and internal controls implemented in collecting the data required for
reporting. The Strategy and ESG Committee deals with the strategic further development of sustainability and its
enshrinement in the overall strategy of the company. It obtains information on the associated ESG fields of action,
measures and initiatives, as well as on the progress made, and monitors the inclusion of sustainability aspects in
the business model. The Supervisory Board’s Personnel Committee deals with the implementation of ESG
objectives in internal performance indicators and their consideration in remuneration systems. As part of the
Executive Board’s remuneration, it defines the ESG criteria, their target values and target achievement ranges on
an annual basis and assesses the respective degree of achievement of the non-financial targets.
Sustainability management
Continuous improvement and ongoing further development aligned to the changing requirements of our time are
the basis for sustainability activities at Rheinmetall. Since the Corporate Social Responsibility department was
established in 2011, we have been working on an ongoing basis in improving the cooperation with the experts in
the divisions, business units and national companies.
Various principles and international guidelines form the basis for our sustainability management:
(cid:131)(cid:3) Corporate philosophy with vision and mission based on the values of respect, trust and openness;
(cid:131)(cid:3) Code of Conduct for all employees with binding regulations which include topics such as human rights,
anti-corruption, compliance, adherence to competition and anti-trust legislation;
RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 113 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Governance

For senior and middle management, the achievement of ESG targets will be taken into account at 20% in the short
term and long term incentive from fiscal 2023.
Reporting
In the context of its reporting on non-financial and sustainability-related performance, Rheinmetall aligns itself to
the international standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
Since October 2011, we have been reporting on our sustainability activities on our website under the heading
“Responsibility.”
Since fiscal 2017, we have been submitting a non-financial statement every year.
In addition to the legal requirements, we publish the ESG Factbook reporting annually. On more than 100 pages,
we provide information in the Performance, People, Planet and Governance categories on topics defined as
material and present our economic, social and ecological performance over a period of three years. In addition,
the Factbook includes the GRI Content Index. An additional index refers to the covered reporting requirements of
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) in the sectors relevant to our business model.
After signing the UN Global Compact in fiscal 2021 as a visible expression of our commitment to sustainability, we
published the annual Communication on Progress (CoP) on the new UNGC platform via the Early Adopter Program
in August 2022. With this report we show transparently what progress the company has made in the area of
corporate responsibility over a year.
We are continuously developing our indicator system in accordance with internationally recognized standards and
on the basis of internal and external requirements so that, in addition to internal management, our external
reporting can be aligned even more specifically to the demands of groups such as investors and to make our
sustainability performance – as well as the challenges and opportunities of long-term company development –
more transparent.
Materiality analysis
In view of the emerging new strong trends in the area of sustainability and the soon-to-be-introduced extensions
and new requirements in sustainability reporting, we again carried out a materiality analysis in the past fiscal year,
involving both internal and external stakeholders. The list of potentially relevant sustainability aspects has been
reviewed for up-to-dateness and adjusted accordingly. For this purpose, the results of secondary analyses have
been taken into account, including the evaluation of regulatory requirements and projects, ESG ratings,
benchmarks of our peer group and media reporting. The result of the materiality analysis reflects the economic,
environmental and social sustainability issues that are significant for our company. The focus of our reporting is
on the topics classified as very material and material. For some other aspects, our voluntary reporting in this non-
114 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Employees
Further training for employees – Further training, assuming responsibility and promotion opportunities have a
high degree of relevance for the commitment and satisfaction of our employees. To ensure the continued growth
and future viability of the Rheinmetall Group, in consideration of additional demographic factors and the shortage
of specialist staff that is expected in many places, the development of employees, talented management trainees
and experienced specialist and managerial staff in line with current and future requirements constitutes a key
factor for the company’s success. Thus strategic personnel planning is aligned to securing and continuously
raising the high skill levels to ensure that the Group companies can achieve their business goals.
Annual appraisal interviews between management and employees are deployed to talk about performance,
targets and individual development options. A range of training opportunities are in place to support Rheinmetall
employees with planning their own development, achieving individual learning objectives and expanding their
skills to meet the requirements of their current positions or to obtain new positions. Personnel development and
training activities are offered on the basis of regular needs assessments. Various sources are used for needs
assessment. These include not only the results of the potential assessment and personnel development
appraisals, which are conducted in accordance with the collective agreement on training, but also Group-wide
successor planning, the target-setting process and capacity and investment planning. Further training objectives
are also derived from strategic objectives, such as the increased internationalization of the Group and the
transformation of the previous automotive supply business.
Established development programs for managerial and junior staff – Top performers and employees with
potential are identified as part of systematic assessments and their skills are selectively developed. This is based
on the Rheinmetall “Management by Objectives” program, which incorporates the relevant leadership and
management skills in five key areas. The performance and development potential of managers and prospective
management candidates is identified, assessed and evaluated at regular intervals as part of a consistent,
multistage selection and assessment process. This personal stocktaking enables an open discussion on strengths
and weaknesses and structured feedback on individual development and promotion opportunities.
Individually determined personnel development plans help to improve the candidates’ business, technical,
methodical and social skills. Furthermore, prospective managers can take part in management potential analyses
and/or individual assessments, which analyze their abilities and skills profiles in more depth.
The Rheinmetall Academy successively prepares these employees at various stages in their careers for assuming
leadership or specialist roles. The modular course programs and content are systematically designed around the
topics of strategy, management, leadership, methodical competence, project management and
internationalization. The Executive Development Program and Manager’s Leadership Program focus on “Leading
my business” and help experienced managers to perform their organizational and managerial duties successfully.
In particular, they help managers to build on their knowledge of corporate controlling, employee leadership and
change management. Junior staff are prepared to take on their first managerial challenges in the Young Manager
Program. The content of the Project Manager’s Program is tailored to the tasks and activities performed by
employees of the Rheinmetall Group. These supplement the technical and methodical project management skills
acquired in certification courses with training on “How to manage project teams.”
In the year under review, 2,438 employees (1,883 men, 555 women) attended 199 (previous year: 221) one-day or
multi-day events at the Rheinmetall Academy, compared with 2,732 (2,061 men, 671 women) in the previous year.
59% of participants come from the Vehicle Systems, Weapon and Ammunition and Electronic Solutions divisions,
27% from companies of the Sensors and Actuators and Materials and Trade divisions. The share of female
participants was around 23%. Around two-thirds of participants completed an online training session, while
around one-third attended a classroom seminar.
Modern remuneration systems
Appropriate, fair and standard market pay systems are a key aspect in recruiting and retaining dedicated staff at
the company. Rheinmetall offers attractive contractual terms. In addition to the category of work, these are based
on the content of the role and the amount of responsibility and are linked to market rates. In addition to fixed
remuneration components in line with market requirements, performance-related bonuses and variable salary
components are also paid.
RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 123 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Employees
The “Management by Objectives” concept is linked to variable salary components for managers and employees
not covered by collective wage agreements. An individual variable portion of income is paid in accordance with
the achievement of individually agreed targets and depending on the company’s performance. Depending on the
extent to which targets are achieved, this amounts to between 0% and 200% of variable target income. The fact
that these income components are based on targets provides incentives for employees to act independently and
to take on challenges. Division heads, managers and executives receive a long-term incentive (LTI) in addition to
this short-term component. This is geared towards long-term corporate success and for 2022 includes payment of
40% of the long-term incentive amount in Rheinmetall shares, which are subject to a four-year lock-up period. The
number of shares granted is based on a reference share price, which corresponds to the average price on the last
five trading days in February of the subsequent fiscal year. A total of 60% of the long-term incentive amount is
paid in cash and is also used for the immediate payment of tax on Rheinmetall shares. To bring the interests and
targets of management and stakeholders into alignment, non-financial targets have been taken into account in
Executive Board remuneration since 2020. For senior and middle management, the achievement of ESG targets
will be taken into account at 20% in the short term and long term incentive from fiscal 2023.
The company’s success benefits employees, including staff covered by collective wage agreements in Germany,
in two ways: First, employees receive an annual share of profits subject to the annual performance of the
Rheinmetall Group; second, the increase in the value of the company achieved is paid out in a success-oriented
component in the company pension, thus leading to improved support in old age.
Employee subscription to Rheinmetall shares
In the year under review, Rheinmetall AG again launched a share-based employee participation program in 29
German (previous year: 27) and eight Group companies in Austria and Switzerland, which provides for an
individual monthly savings plan in a basic or extended version. The 30% employer allowance, which amounted to
€3 million as in the previous year, enables employees to acquire shares at attractive conditions subject to a two-
year holding period and participate as part-owners in the business success of their company.
Employee share programme
2022 2021
Shares acquired 66,905 105,118
Participating companies 37 27
Eligible employees 14,646 12,551
Participating employees 3,968 3,321
Participation rate 27 26
Diversity
In times of accelerating change in technology, business and society, ensuring equal opportunities and promoting
diversity is an important task for HR at Rheinmetall. For us diversity is a key value, and in times of transformation
a major factor for innovation and steady growth. We value all people regardless of gender, age, sexual identity,
educational background, state of health, ethical or social background, skin color, religion, culture, ideology or
other personal characteristics. For us it is important to create a secure and integrative working environment, one
marked by respect, in which each person is equal, treated fairly and can maximize his or her potential.
The corporate philosophy, the Code of Conduct, the principles of social responsibility and the Diversity Policy
establish the framework for promoting diversity and equal opportunity as well as acting against discrimination. By
signing the Diversity Charter, we are underlining this stance and making it clear to the public as well.
To mark International Diversity Day at the end of May 2022, teams at national and international locations were
invited to take part in a Group-wide photo competition to show how diversity is put into practice in their day-to-
day work. The accompanying online program also offered training units on unconscious bias and enabled an
interactive exchange with the Head of HR. In year under review, preparations were also made to expand the range
of advice and support services offered by the established ViVa Family and Care Service at the German locations to
include the Diversity Advice module from January 2023.
124 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Procurement and the supply chain

We also wish to anchor our values and principles in our supply chains and therefore expect our business partners
to share our principles regarding responsible and fair conduct to employees, customers, suppliers and the public
and demonstrate this responsibility accordingly. We expect our suppliers to take into account the principles laid
down in our Supplier Code of Conduct – which is available in several languages and is valid worldwide – in their
own corporate policies and to view them as an advantageous basis for further business relationships.
In the year under review, the Supplier Code of Conduct as a binding component of contracts with suppliers was
completely revised in consultation with various departments, and the content was adapted to meet the
requirements of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. Based on the new set of rules, Rheinmetall can now
act more proactively in partnership with its supplier partners to improve sustainability and compliance aspects in
the procurement process and to achieve corporate development goals at the economic, social, ecological and
regulatory levels.
Supply chains in the automotive industry
The automotive industry consists of a complex network of globally active players. A distinction is made between
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), first-tier suppliers and second- and third-tier suppliers. Manufacturers
and suppliers are closely linked in working together to develop and produce vehicles. Automotive manufacturers
have been working for some time on anchoring economic, ecological and social objectives vertically, i.e. across
all stages of the value-added chain. These include respect of international ESG standards, reduction of carbon
footprint in production, a higher proportion of recyclable material, responsible use of substances and materials,
and future CO -neutral products.


Compliance
at regular intervals, so that the OEMs can analyze and assess the services and progress in terms of ESG criteria
and determine the degree to which their requirements have been met. OEMs also carry out in-depth on-site checks
as part of their supply chain relationship management and audit suppliers’ manufacturing facilities based on
sustainability criteria from the areas of environment, social responsibility and integrity. This includes the review
of documents, talks with employees and a site visit.
Supply chains in the security and defence industry
Supply chains in the defence industry are characterized by very complex structures, easily comprising up to eight
stages for the needs of, for example, Rheinmetall Waffe Munition and Rheinmetall Landsysteme. The high
proportion of specific materials and processes combined with a broad product range leads, as is generally the
case in this industry, to a high proportion of single sourcing, also because only a few companies throughout the
world completely manufacture or command the very specific products and processes. In the defence technology
industry, switching to new suppliers is very costly, both from a financial and time-related perspective. The
qualification of products carried out by military authorities is linked not only to the performance of the product
itself but also to the manufacturing process, manufacturing location and suppliers. A change of suppliers therefore
automatically results in costs for requalification. The procurement business in the area of ballistic protection has
the characteristics of a project, i.e. it is characterized by intermittent production by our suppliers. This requires a
high number of quality assurance measures. Furthermore, specific legislation, such as the War Weapons Control
Act, the Foreign Trade and Payments Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), to cite just a few,
must be taken into consideration for procurement in the divisions operating in the security technology sector.
Risks
Information on reducing or avoiding procurement risks can be found in the “Risks and opportunities” section.
Compliance
Management approach
The reputation of Rheinmetall, the success of the business and the trust of customers, investors, employees and
the general public depend not only on the quality of our products and services, but also to a large degree on good
corporate governance and, in particular, on effective compliance processes. In line with our values and our Code
of Conduct, we are committed to conduct characterized by responsibility, integrity, respect and fairness. We are
an honest, loyal and reliable partner for all our stakeholders.
Our binding compliance policy serves to safeguard our business success on a lasting basis. The members of the
Executive Board and managers, executives and employees naturally have an obligation to comply at all times in
their working environment with all the applicable country-specific laws, external and internal regulations and other
provisions, to conduct themselves correctly in business dealings, to preserve the company’s tangible and
intangible assets and to avoid anything that may result in operational or financial disadvantages or damage to the
image of individual companies or the Rheinmetall Group. We do not tolerate any damage to our company’s
standing and to the reputation of our employees or agents as a result of unlawful and/or unethical behavior or
corrupt business practices.
International business activities
In the day-to-day business of an international company, the different national political and legal systems as well
as values, customs and societal norms of different cultural groups have to be taken into account. In addition to
the applicable legislation of the countries of exportation, European Union regulations as well as anti-corruption
laws such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the French Sapin II Anti-Corruption Act
must be observed. The requirements that Rheinmetall Group companies have to fulfill are therefore many and
varied. With deliveries made to many countries around the globe in 2022, management and employees now more
than ever need guidance when it comes to national and international business and in relations with business
partners, office holders, authorities and other state bodies in order to avoid potential errors and any resulting
reputational, business or liability risks.
Compliance organization
RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 131 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Compliance
Illegal conduct can cause many different types of damage and can have serious consequences, such as the
discontinuation of business relationships, exclusion from orders, negative assessments on capital markets,
imposition of fines, absorption of profits, claims for damages as well as civil or criminal proceedings. There is also
the risk of significant and lasting damage to the Group’s reputation and thus a detrimental effect on its market
position. Compliance at Rheinmetall is therefore taken very seriously and has for a long time been an integral part
of the corporate culture.
To provide its employees with guidance and allow them to conduct business with confidence, Rheinmetall took a
holistic approach and set up a compliance organization very early on providing standardized general conditions
and clear guidelines for legal and rule-compliant, ethically correct and fair conduct in day-to-day business.
The Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Executive Board, is responsible for
Corporate Compliance and Group Data Protection at holding company level. Corporate Compliance is divided into
Compliance Program with the functions Prevention, Regulation and Business Partners, and Compliance
Operations with the functions Investigation and Programs & Acquisitions. As an independent organizational unit,
Data Protection is divided into two functional areas. The focus in the Data Protection organization is on consulting,
process design, project management and case handling in all data privacy matters. The internal Rheinmetall Group
Data Protection Officer is responsible for monitoring compliance with statutory data protection requirements
throughout the Group. In this function, there is a reporting line to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board.
The Chief Compliance Officer is also responsible for the organization compliance field, comprising the five
divisional compliance teams, the Regional Compliance Officers abroad and the central holding support, as part of
the strongly normative management. The function of Corporate Compliance Officer for Central Europe was also
newly established in Corporate Compliance to support the increasingly important locations and major projects in
Eastern Europe (with a focus on Hungary).
The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee on a
regular basis, by attending meetings, on the status and effectiveness of the compliance management system and
on the latest developments. In serious cases, the committees are informed immediately. In addition, the heads of
the divisions are also kept apprised monthly by Corporate Compliance or the Division Compliance Officer of current
developments, new rules, planned training measures or possible compliance infringements as well as the status
of possible investigations.
Compliance management system
Compliance is taken into account as an aspect of risk in decision-making processes, not only when it comes to
considerations regarding the strategic and operational alignment of the Rheinmetall Group, but also in day-to-day
business. The central compliance management system, with its integrated and dynamic focus on constantly
updated key risk aspects, such as corruption, data protection violations or attempted fraud, is firmly anchored in
the Group-wide management and control structures and includes all instruments, processes and extensive
measures intended to ensure that procedures in the companies of the Rheinmetall Group comply with the
applicable country-specific legislation, general legal conditions, regulatory provisions and the company’s own
regulations. It also creates an organizational structure that allows the applicable standards to be publicized across
the divisions and their implementation status to be tracked. If binding legal regulations in individual countries
deviate from the rules set out in the compliance management system, the stricter regulation shall apply where
permissible. In the case of changes to the content, the Chief Compliance Officer’s approval is also required.
The compliance management system is updated at regular intervals, not only in line with the applicable legal
requirements but also in the light of new findings from reporting, comparisons with other compliance systems and
the assessment of external specialists (benchmarking). It is also reviewed on an ad-hoc basis if any breach of
compliance regulations is suspected or discovered.
Implementation of the compliance management system is monitored by regular reports to Corporate Compliance
and by routine and special audits conducted by internal auditing and the compliance organization.
Compliance officers also monitor important transactions in the companies, such as mergers and acquisitions, the
establishment of joint ventures, pre-employment checks and the integration of sales brokers or integrity and
132 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Compliance
sustainability risk assessments for the supply chains, thereby supporting the respective departments in their
work. In addition, compliance officers advise the people responsible in the operational units on how to take
compliance into account in operational business processes.
In the area of sales support, there is a platform containing compliance-relevant information on around 160
countries and regions. Moreover, the tender process in the security and defence technology divisions is structured
to the effect that in the course of the bid/no bid decision a compliance audit using defined criteria is obligatory
for projects over a certain value threshold. Various IT tools are also used in all divisions to support compliance
processes.
Corporate compliance
Compliance Program | Prevention – A compliance risk prevention guideline was implemented in 2019 with the aim
of ensuring a standardized procedure for systematic risk prevention and creating the structural and organizational
preconditions required for this at all levels in the company. Procedures for taking an initial inventory of compliance
risks, deriving response measures and plan regular repeat measures are defined for different applications.
To help continuously identify compliance risks and to develop and improve mitigation measures, the Prevention
team was established, which focuses on structural prevention topics on an ongoing or project basis. In addition
to the web-based training courses available in the Empower Learn HR system for the companies in Germany,
Austria and Switzerland (D-A-CH) relating to the categories of Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, anti-trust law and
data protection, Prevention uses the TRACE learning management system for companies outside the D-A-CH
region, offering around 20 training modules in various languages. The roll-out of the regulatory compliance project
launched in 2020, which is intended to expand the “ligation-proof organization,” was driven forward in the fiscal
year. Here, around 29 function-specific regulatory areas to be observed globally (e.g. occupational safety,
environmental protection, export, customs and logistics regulations, and anti-money-laundering standards) were
identified centrally and compared against correlating corporate policies. Next, an IT tool is to be introduced to
enable the employees concerned in over 30 countries – those who have increased contact with regulatory areas
subject to liability in their everyday and project business – to deal with the complex regulations more easily and
reliably.
The goal of making the processes, projects and tasks enshrined in the compliance management system more
measurable and transparent was achieved in the year under review by implementing a new reporting tool. More
than 110 employees entrusted with a compliance function in around 130 units of the company make use of the
many opportunities to track, assess and manage the status of a large number of compliance-relevant processes
and projects at various organizational levels of the Rheinmetall Group. These include reporting on the status quo
of training courses, audits, risk analyses, consulting focal points, processes, compliance levels for guideline roll-
outs, and the recording of project statuses. The associated evaluation options will enable compliance reporting to
the Executive Board and Supervisory Board to focus on KPIs in the future.
In February 2022, the roll-out of the new guideline on identifying and avoiding conflicts of interest in the
Rheinmetall Group began. This guideline introduces regulations for the recognition, documentation, escalation
and handling of conflicts of interest on a binding basis.
Compliance Program | Regulation – Taking account of or on the basis of external conditions such as laws,
regulations, etc. and internal organizational requirements, the Executive Board of Rheinmetall AG issues
regulations for the Rheinmetall Group so that all employees concerned act in line with standardized processes.
Regulation Management, which is based in the central Corporate Compliance department, provides support with
the preparation and management of conduct- and process-related regulations of Rheinmetall AG for the
Rheinmetall Group. To ensure a standardized procedure, the Regulation Management Manual 2.0 has been
available since October 2020. This manual is aimed primarily at publishers and authors as well as members of the
Executive Board and management bodies, but also includes several interfaces at all organizational levels.
In the Central Regulations Register on the Group’s intranet, all regulations approved by the Executive Board can
be called up at any time. These are provided in German and English in line with the corporate languages.
RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 133 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Compliance
Compliance Program | Business Partners – As a shared service center, the central Compliance Due Diligence
center of expertise conducts not only pre-employment checks on applicants for key positions, but also all
compliance due diligence checks on new and existing business partners (e.g. procurement, cooperation and sales
partners) on a Group-wide basis. The focus lies here on determining whether the commitment is legally
permissible, whether all attributable people can be identified (“know your customer – KYC” and “know your
supplier – KYS”) and whether conflicts of interest are excluded. The general performance and integrity of the
business partner are also assessed. The local compliance organization will continue concentrating on assessing
the transaction-specific compliance risk associated with the commitment of a business partner at company level.
The center of expertise will be integrated in day-to-day operational business through various technical and
procedural interfaces. There is already a relatively high degree of digitalization in the Compliance Due Diligence
organization. In addition to a specific management database for selecting, managing and monitoring cooperation
and sales partners, the whole integrity due diligence process can now be performed via a secure online platform
as well. As part of two special projects, the data of more than 8,000 business partners was migrated to the
electronic third-party management system. The first step involved individual risk assessments. In the second step,
24/7 active, systematic monitoring of adverse media information and daily updated entries on sanctions lists was
activated.
In the past fiscal year, apart from the business partners screened by the automated procedure, around 900
business partners and people who applied for key positions at the Rheinmetall Group were subjected to non-
automated screening in procedures of varying complexity depending on the risk.
The Rheinmetall Risk Indicator (RRI) developed in the previous year went live in the year under review. It is intended
to serve as the basis for various internal risk calculations and replace the previously used TI Corruption Perception
Index. The RRI is made up of various informative governance, compliance and ESG indices. These are included in
the arithmetic with different weightings and thus reflect the risk priorities set by the Rheinmetall Group.
Compliance Operations | Investigation – If employees have information on questionable activities that have been
observed, specific breaches of regulations or business practices that may be prohibited, they can contact not only
their line manager but also – and in full confidence – various internal offices as well as an independent, external
ombudsman (lawyer) and so avert losses for the company.
Incident management is also supported by the electronic whistleblower platform “Integrity Line,” which has been
implemented throughout the Group. In addition, employees can contact the compliance organization directly if
they suspect or know of breaches of regulations or business practices. In addition to employees, external parties
can also contact the ombudsman by telephone or e-mail, send an e-mail to speakup@rheinmetall.com or contact
a specialist compliance officer by telephone.
Protection is guaranteed for all whistleblowers; who need not fear any disadvantages as a result of providing
information. Employees involved in investigations into possible breaches of compliance will be assumed to be
innocent until proven otherwise. Any information that is received will be systematically analyzed.
An incident management guideline on how to deal with suspected cases and on the standardized processing of
compliance cases aims to ensure that the handling of information is also independent, transparent and fair as
well as being subject to high standards that are comparable across the Group. It also offers legal certainty when
carrying out investigations, meaning that appropriate account can be taken of the interests of employees and the
employer.
Systematic follow-up checks are performed on the basis of this incident management guideline and appropriate
measures are taken to properly clarify the facts that have been reported, if necessary with the involvement of
external specialists. Confidentiality and discretion take top priority here. If necessary, we will involve the relevant
authorities and cooperate with them to resolve the matter. Proven misconduct is sanctioned and entails
organizational measures and, for the employees who committed the offense(s), consequences under labor law,
civil law and criminal law. The 23 Incident Response Committees established to conduct rapid, interdisciplinary
initial evaluations of reports help to ensure that suspected cases can be identified and clarified without delay.
134 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Compliance

To improve the internationalization of data protection in the Group, in 2022 contacts were identified in the relevant
Group companies around the world who will be available in the future as contact and coordination points for the
implementation of data protection requirements. The first intensive data protection training courses have already
been held to assist them, and these will be continued in fiscal 2023.
Training and advice
To make employees at all levels of the company aware of compliance risks, numerous introduction events, training
seminars and workshops are held, some of which are tailored to specific functions such as management, buyers
or sales staff. Legislation and important regulations are explained and further content is provided at these
sessions. Attention is also drawn to internal compliance requirements, risks and possible sanctions and, based
RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 135 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Social responsibility
on case studies, practical advice is given on correct conduct in specific situations during everyday work. These
classroom training sessions, which also serve as a practical forum for discussions, are accompanied by interactive
online programs. Each year, as part of compliance awareness training, employees at sites in Germany and abroad
not only receive training in general compliance topics but also in the prevention of corruption, conflicts of interest,
money laundering and CEO fraud, export control and anti-trust and competition law. The compliance training
matrix, which forms part of the procedural instructions for compliance training, provides an overview of the training
content geared toward the different target groups and management levels. Its content is adjusted in accordance
with the needs of the participants or supplemented with country-specific or regional peculiarities. In the past fiscal
year, employees took part in around 6,000 classroom training sessions on various compliance topics. In addition,
around 6,300 compliance-relevant e-learning modules were completed in the year under review.
Our employees receive regular instruction and training in matters relating to data protection. Around 2,000 people
took part in e-learning courses in the year under review. The content of data protection training is adapted for
individual departments in line with the specific requirements in their spheres of work. For new employees, general
data protection training is part of the onboarding process. A new e-learning module was also chosen in the past
fiscal year which is available in numerous languages and will be rolled out in fiscal 2023. In addition, all levels of
the company are provided with data protection advice on an ad hoc basis.
Risks
Information on reducing or avoiding compliance risks is provided in the “Risks and opportunities” section
Social responsibility
Management approach
Social acceptance is an important requirement for companies’ economic success. Many Rheinmetall companies
can look back on a long history. They have been connected with their sites for many years and are strongly rooted
in the local community – after all, this is where their employees and business partners live. In some cases, major
customers are based there. Rheinmetall is a living, breathing part of society and participates actively in it and not
just in a financial sense. We get involved in the areas of education, sport and culture and also provide direct
support for local social projects and charitable organizations. By adding value locally, we also contribute to
regional development. Flourishing production sites do not only mean attractive, highly skilled jobs and training
places close to home but also orders for local suppliers and service providers. In addition, a large part of the sales
generated by the companies returns to the respective economies via the employees, public sector and the
shareholders. Capital expenditure in future growth is financed via the funds remaining in the Rheinmetall Group.
We also make major contributions to society as an employer and client as well as with our products and the
transfer of knowledge.
Corporate citizenship
Corporate citizenship is part of corporate social responsibility and refers to citizenship in and of companies that
pursue a medium- and long-term business strategy on the basis of responsible action and, in addition to their
actual business operations, are also actively involved in local civil society and/or for social/charitable,
environmental, sporting and cultural causes as “good citizens.” Social engagement is a long-standing tradition at
Rheinmetall. It always goes beyond the plant boundaries. Since the needs and opportunities in the vicinity of the
locations where we operate vary greatly, the decision on which local project to support is incumbent on the
respective management teams of the companies, the division heads or the Executive Board of Rheinmetall AG.
As an expression of our social commitment and in solidarity with the capital of North Rhine-Westphalia, we support
a number of players in Düsseldorf sports. The cooperation between Rheinmetall and the sports city of Düsseldorf
includes sports sponsorship of a handball league team. However, parts of the package also focus on promoting
Olympic, youth and amateur sports as well as new trend sports.
Given the 2021 flood disaster in the Ahr valley, we decided to support civil disaster protection. In June 2022, we
donated two highly mobile HX 4x4 new vehicles to THW-Bundesvereinigung e.V. for use in two local associations
in North Rhine-Westphalia and Hesse. Thanks to their high robustness, mobility and 1.5-meter fording ability,
these two trucks are ideally suited for use in difficult terrain or flooded areas.
136 RHEINMETALL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Letter to shareholders Combined management report Consolidated financial statement Further information
Non-financial statement
Social responsibility
Product responsibility
Specialist working groups in the divisions deal, for example, with safety and environmental standards for
Rheinmetall products. They are responsible for tracking new regulations and developments, defining and
implementing the required internal processes and conducting relevant training. Products in civilian business are
subjected to extensive testing in accordance with the regulations prescribed by automotive quality and
development standards. The Sensors and Actuators division, for example, uses a database-supported process for
product safety management, which maps out the entire product lifecycle. The Materials and Trade division uses
special design and simulation tools. To prove product safety, in addition to tests carried out in testing facilities
outside the engine, engine operation tests are also carried out with customers under various stress scenarios.
Internal and external audits are carried out to regularly monitor compliance with the parameters of the quality
management system and the relevant processes. For the divisions operating in the field of security technology,
the guideline for implementing product safety sets out the basic requirements for ensuring the safety of Defence
products in line with common standards and methods.
In the year under review, Rheinmetall Technology Management also dealt with further developments regarding the
digital product pass at the level of Germany (German Environment Agency: Product Information 4.0) and the
European Union (Sustainable Product Initiative and Incubation Forum for Circular Economy in European Defence
– IFCEED). This is particularly intended to advance the circular economy. It compiles information on a product’s
components, materials and chemical substances, as well as its reparability, replacement parts and proper
disposal. Environmental data are thus grouped together in a comparable format, making it easier for the players
in the value an