2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
2.3
Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
 – Close networking and cooperation with our stakeholders
– Partnerships are key to sustainable development and business success
– Siemens is an active member of numerous business associa-tions and organizations
As a company that operates globally, we partner in a variety of ways with a very diverse set of players. Our efforts here are in line with SDG 17, which calls for a revitalized, strengthened global partnership that brings together governments, civil soci- ety, the private sector, the United Nations, and other entities.
Only by collaborating closely with stakeholder groups can we make serious progress on complex and intertwined sustainability challenges such as environmental concerns. We maintain a con- stant dialog for that purpose with investors, customers, suppliers, our people, communities, policymakers, media, nongovern- mental organizations, business organizations, and academia. Our management and the relevant specific units with gover- nance functions are in charge of this task. For example, overall responsibility for dialog with policymakers lies with the Siemens Managing Board. Within the various business units, the unit’s CEO is responsible for coordinated dialog. The Managing Board has tasked the Government Affairs Department with performing the necessary coordination duties and has given it the powers it needs for the purpose.
This engagement with our stakeholder groups creates value on all sides of the equation through exchanges of knowledge and information, as well as through creative partnerships. It helps us improve business conditions and reduce both external and internal risks. Our new DEGREE sustainability framework is also founded on dialog with our customers, investors, suppliers, and our people, and with society at large, and on acknowledging the impact our business has on the planet. This new framework thus represents a 360-degree stakeholder approach.
In dialog with politics and society
As a global company, we work with our customers to find inno- vative solutions to some of the most pressing issues facing the planet. For that reason, dialog with policymakers is intrinsic to our social responsibility and is of tremendous importance to our success as a company. We base the priorities of our political activities on our business strategies and innovation fields.
Our advocacy activities focus on the following topics and policy areas, among others: cybersecurity, digitalization (including Internet of Things / IoT and artificial intelligence / AI), decarbon- ization and climate change action, energy, R&D, and trade policy, as well as connected and automated mobility for rail and road. We have joined forces with leading companies from around the world to establish the Charter of Trust, which aims to make the digital world safer and more secure.
WWW.CHARTEROFTRUST.COM
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 36

2.3 Partnerships and collaborations for sustainability
Furthermore, we support the goal of achieving a carbon-neutral Europe by 2050 – announced as part of the European Green Deal – through a variety of commitments, including our active memberships in the European Alliance to Save Energy ( HTTPS://EUASE.NET) and the EUROPEAN GREEN DIGITAL COALITION.
As part of the European Green Deal, “fit for 55” is an important – and tangible – step toward the goal of reducing carbon emissions by 55% until 2030 and achieving complete climate neutrality by 2050. The proposed measures establish conditions under which companies can now make long-term plans. A fair and reasonable carbon price will accelerate the embrace of low-carbon technol- ogies, and should thus extend to as many sectors as possible so as to encourage the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. Siemens will continue to do its part here – because we have the necessary technologies and knowledge to reduce CO2 emissions and energy consumption, and to conserve resources.
Our political involvement is guided by firm principles. We are politically neutral and take a zero-tolerance approach to corrup- tion, violations of fair competition principles, and other breach- es of applicable law and internal regulations. Siemens does not make political donations and contributions (donations to politi- cians, political parties, or political organizations). All contribu- tions that support purely political purposes or the representation of political interests, such as election events for political cam- paigns, are prohibited by our internal guidelines.
Engagement in associations and organizations
In addition, Siemens is a member of numerous business associ- ations and similar organizations, some of which advocate for their members’ interests in the political arena. Selected examples of the most important memberships in our three core markets (the European Union, the United States of America, and China) are: the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), the VDMA
(Verband Deutscher Maschinen- und Anlagenbau e.V.), the Ger- man Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI), the European Round Table for Industry (ERT), the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the European Chamber of Commerce in China (EUCCC). More information on political activities at Siemens can be found here: HTTPS://NEW.SIEMENS.COM/GLOBAL/EN/COMPANY/ ABOUT/CORPORATE-FUNCTIONS/GOVERNMENT-AFFAIRS.HTML
We also work closely with the Organization for Economic Coop- eration and Development (OECD), the United Nations, the European Union, and the World Economic Forum (WEF). We are involved in various initiatives of the WEF, such as the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and the WEF CEO Climate Leaders Coalition.
We cooperate as well with the United Nations, for instance as part of our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). When it comes to environmental issues, we support the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the UN climate conferences and we are actively involved in the CEO Water Mandate. Further- more, we have joined the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), and we advocate for the global introduction of carbon pricing. We are additionally committed to the UNGC Women’s Empowerment Principles and have signed the Diversity Charter, an initiative by the German government.
For years, we have supported One Young World (OYW), a non-profit organization that champions young business leaders around the globe in order to build a better world with more responsible, more effective leadership. At the 2021 OYW Summit in Munich, we celebrated ten years of our CEO’s’ involvement with the organization and we supported this event again in 2022, when it was held in Manchester, by sending more than 40 of our colleagues to attend.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 37
The image depicts the Siemens compliance system, which is structured around three key management responsibilities: Prevent, Detect, and Respond. These responsibilities are illustrated in a circular flow to emphasize their continuous and interconnected nature.

Below the circular flow, the image highlights several key activity fields of the compliance system, each represented by an icon and a label:

1. **Anti-Corruption**: Represented by an icon showing a hand giving money.
2. **Anti-Money Laundering**: Illustrated by an icon of a washing machine with money being crossed out.
3. **Antitrust**: Depicted with an icon showing figures in a competitive situation.
4. **Collective Action**: Represented by puzzle pieces fitting together.
5. **Data Privacy**: Illustrated with an icon of a folder with a padlock.
6. **Export Control**: Shown with a globe and interconnected arrows.
7. **Human Rights**: Depicted by an icon of an open hand.

The overall design underscores the importance of these activity fields in maintaining a robust compliance system within Siemens.

2.4 Sustainability ratings reflect our performance
2.4
Sustainability ratings reflect our performance
 – Our engagement is recognized in a number of ratings and rankings
– This helps continuously improve our sustainability performance
– It also strengthens the Siemens brand and enhances the satisfaction of our people
Our commitment to sustainability is widely recognized in a variety of significant ratings and rankings. This recognition corroborates the wisdom of our sustainability strategy, and at the same time it also provides us with a yardstick for continuous improvement.
We actively involve ourselves with external ratings and rankings as a way of measuring our performance against similar companies and competitors. There are four reasons why this engagement is important to us:
1. Markets and customers increasingly want information about ratings and rankings and they have begun to require these assessments as part of their contract terms.
2. Investors are increasingly developing their own ratings and rankings to assess companies’ sustainability performance.
3. We want to be able to measure our performance against that of peers and competitors so that we can initiate the right steps for improvement and detect important trends in sustainability.
4. Good results in relevant, acknowledged ratings strengthen the Siemens brand and enhance the satisfaction of our people.
 Siemens’ sustainability performance has received recognition in external ratings and rankings

Governance Responsible Business Practices
       Ethics
Foster a culture of trust, adhere to ethical standards, and handle data with care
Our key ambitions:1
→ Strivingtotrain100%ofourpeopleonSiemens’ Business Conduct Guidelines every three years
Governance
Apply state-of-the-art systems for effective and responsible business conduct
Our key ambitions:1
→ ESG-securedsupplychainbasedonsuppliercom- mitment to the Supplier Code of Conduct
→ Long-term incentives based on ESG criteria2
Additional topics:
→ Focus on human rights within supply chain: climate protection, occupational safety, and responsible sourcing of minerals
→ comprehensive environmental and social due diligence in customer business (ESG radar)
1 2
Siemens without SHS.
Assessment based on Siemens-internal ESG-/sustainability Index, based on customer satisfaction (Net Promoter Score), CO2 reduction, training hours.
Additional topics:
→ Zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable laws and our own internal guidelines
→ A global, risk-based compliance system
→ Aiming for a leading role in cybersecurity
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 39

 3.1 Compliance and Ethics
3.1
Compliance and Ethics
– Zero-tolerance approach to breaches of applicable laws and our own internal guidelines
– A global, risk-based compliance system
– Ethics and integrity form the basis for sustainable
business practices
At Siemens, we take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and other breaches of applicable laws and of our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs). We operate on the premise that only clean business is Siemens business. If violations do occur, we respond consistently and vigorously following defined procedures, every- where in the world and on all organizational levels.
We are also convinced that responsible business practices, in addition to compliance with laws and regulations, require that we act on the basis of ethical principles. Siemens has enshrined its ethical principles in its BCGs, which all employees are bound to follow. Our aspiration is to support the sustainable develop- ment of Siemens and the societies in which we operate by ad- hering to responsible business practices. We have also enshrined this approach in our DEGREE Framework under the letter “E” for
Ethics. STRATEGY SIEMENS AT A GLANCE
Our compliance organization contributes in particular to the achievement of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 16, “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.” That goal includes a call for companies to dramatically reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms.
Worldwide commitment to fighting corruption
Beyond our company’s borders and in collaboration with other international and national organizations we are committed to fighting corruption and promoting fair competition in our mar- kets. This is also reflected in our Collective Action activities. Part of that engagement is our commitment to the United Nations
“We help our customers and
partners around the world drive
their digital and sustainable
transformation. Without excuses
or exceptions, we always act
ethically, legally, and with the
highest integrity.”
CEO Roland Busch
Global Compact (UNGC) and our involvement in the World Eco- nomic Forum and its Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). In addition, we actively support the United Nations Con- vention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). For years, we have been supporting the implementation of these Conventions as part of Business 20 (B20).
The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guide- lines for Multinational Enterprises, and other guidelines are a foundation for our companywide work in this domain and are also enshrined in our code of conduct, the Siemens BCGs, that provide direction for all our activities. BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES
Siemens and its roughly 311,000 employees operate in many different countries throughout the world with customers in both the private and public sectors that serve a vast array of industrial sectors. Our global business operations are governed by numer- ous national legal systems and a variety of political, social, and cultural settings, which are constantly changing. Accordingly, the environment where Siemens conducts its business, and thereby carries out its compliance activities, is correspondingly complex.


         3.1 Compliance and Ethics
The Siemens compliance system
Our BCGs contain the fundamental principles and rules for our conduct, both within Siemens and in our relationships with our customers, external partners, and the general public. They also serve as an expression of our values and lay the basis for detailed internal regulations. The BCGs are binding for all Siemens em- ployees around the world.
The goal of compliance at Siemens is to ensure that our business practices worldwide comply with the BCGs and follow applicable laws. The areas of activity of our compliance organization in- clude:
Siemens maintains a comprehensive compliance system based on the three pillars of prevention, detection, and response to ensure compliance within the company.
Preventive measures include compliance risk management, the preparation of topic-specific guidelines and procedures, the in- corporation of compliance requirements into our business pro- cesses, and the provision of comprehensive training and advice to our people. Channels for reporting compliance violations – such as the “Tell Us” whistleblower system and the Ombudsper- son as well as professional and fair investigations – are indispens- able for recognizing and completely resolving matters of misconduct. Unambiguous responses and clear consequences serve to punish misconduct and eliminate weaknesses. To ensure that our compliance system is put into action and meets our requirements everywhere in the world, our internal audit depart- ment continuously performs compliance controls and audits.
One of the key components of this compliance system is the responsibility of our management. That is why the global Legal and Compliance department is directly assigned to the Chairman
→ Anti-corruption,
→ Anti-money laundering, → Antitrust,
→ Data privacy,
→ Export control,
→ Collective Action,
→ Human rights.
HUMAN RIGHTS
CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY
Siemens compliance system
Korruptionsbekämpfung Anti-Corruption
Geldwäscheprävention Anti-Money Laundering
Kartellrecht Antitrust
Datenschutz Data Privacy
Menschenrechte Human Rights

Verantwortung des Management Managements responsibility
Collective Action Collective Action
Exportkontrolle Export Control

3.1 Compliance and Ethics
of the Managing Board as a governance function. Our Chief Com- pliance Officer delivers quarterly reports directly to the Managing Board and Supervisory Board of Siemens AG.
The global structure of the compliance organization combines strong Group-level governance with the work of qualified com- pliance officers who ensure that the compliance system is im- plemented worldwide. They work closely with employees and managers, who assume personal responsibility for compliance within their respective business units.
The entire management team has to act on our commitment to compliance and ensure that all business decisions and transac- tions that fall within their area of responsibility comply with both the relevant legal requirements and our own values and compa- ny guidelines. Siemens managers demonstrate a strong commit- ment to compliance and ethical conduct.
Compliance-related questions are included in the annual Siemens Global Employee Survey in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the compliance system within the company. We also use the survey to gain a better understanding of the degree to which ethical conduct is embedded in our corporate culture. The results of last year’s survey show high approval rates relative to the per- ception and awareness of integrity, ethics, and responsible busi- ness conduct throughout the organization. The next survey is scheduled for fiscal 2023.
Ethics management at Siemens
Siemens is committed to responsible and ethical business con- duct. To this end, the Management Board mandated the compli- ance organization to further strengthen ethics management at Siemens this year.
Based on the values enshrined in the BCGs, with ethics manage- ment, we have created a framework to anchor ethics in our cor- porate culture on a long-term basis. The compliance organization empowers and helps all employees to understand the ethical principles of Siemens and to incorporate ethical considerations into their daily decisions and actions.
The compliance organization develops and implements ethics management in cross-functional networks.
Compliance risk management
To be effective, the Siemens compliance system needs to be continuously adjusted in order to meet business-specific risks and multiple local legal requirements. The findings from compli- ance risk assessments, as well as compliance controls and audits, serve as a basis for deriving measures to further develop the compliance system.
The goal of compliance risk management is to detect compliance risks at an early stage and take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate risks. Risk assessments are also integrated into individ- ual business processes and tools that evaluate risks in any given business decisions and take appropriate risk mitigation steps. Thus, compliance can make a decisive contribution to achieving our corporate goals.
Compliance risk management is an integral part of the company- wide Siemens Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2022, COMBINED MANAGEMENT- REPORT, 8.3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS, which creates a holistic view of all identified risks throughout the Group. Each entity and each re- gion assess its business risks in relation to compliance risks.
Current developments are also systematically evaluated.
In close collaboration with the relevant business units, the early identification and assessment of the compliance risks involved in new digital business models are a core part of our risk man- agement process.
Additional information from internal data sources is included in order to provide a holistic overview of compliance risks. Cross-functional exchange at regular meetings and an annual Corporate Compliance Risk Workshop also make it possible to identify and monitor emerging or changing risks. The results of the risk assessment are therefore a key starting point for the ongoing development of our compliance system.

Compliance priorities in fiscal 2022
Our compliance priorities are the foundation for the continuous development and improvement of our system. We keep a close watch on the ever-evolving requirements in the compliance en- vironment and strive to fulfill them. Among the challenges in this regard are changes in market conditions and in the compli- ance risks of our business activities.
Our long-term compliance priorities are constantly evolving, so we can work from a reliable perspective when pursuing our com- pliance activities. These priorities are supplemented by focus areas and specific activities for each fiscal year, and they contin- ued to guide our work in fiscal 2022. All compliance employees are actively encouraged and committed to the fulfillment of our priorities.
Compliance training
To ensure that compliance and integrity are deeply anchored in the organization, both Siemens employees and the Compliance Department receive targeted, group-oriented, risk-based training on compliance topics.
Compliance training for the Siemens organization emphasizes three core aims:
1. To impart values and raise awareness of fundamental com- pliance issues among all employees.
2. To convey in-depth specialized knowledge to managers and specific target groups.
3. To provide additional materials on all relevant compliance topics for all employees.
Compliance priorities
Communication

n
Ethics management
Further develop and introduce the elements of the Ethics Management initiative as an integral part of our Corporate culture and processes – building on DEGREE, the Siemens BCGs, and our Compliance Management System
Strategic advice
Advice on new business models and go-to-market strategies. Provide assurance in rapidly changing external regulatory environment
People development
Build growth mindset and upskill our organization through learning and development initiatives. Foster enhanced collaboration with global networks
Simplification and digitalization
Keep Pace with Digital Transformation through dedicated tech transformation initiatives
and the continued risk-based streamlining of processes
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 43

3.1 Compliance and Ethics
Employees learn about the compliance activity fields through programs such as mandatory web-based training courses on the contents of our BCGs. In addition, there are also additional train- ing materials that can be used for specific target groups; these are available on the global learning platform.
The BCG training was rolled out to around 106,000 employees worldwide, and 102,000 of them (approximately 96%) success- fully completed the training by the end of fiscal 2022.1
102,000 employees were trained on the contents of our Business Conduct Guidelines in fiscal 2022
In addition, Siemens employees around the world completed about 409,000 training programs for specific target groups in fiscal 2022.1
Training on Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines
Employees who previously could not be included in Siemens internal IT system for training received in-person training in 2022. Face-to-face training sessions were held at every produc- tion site worldwide. By these means, we ensure that every employ- ee receives training within the recurring three-year cycle, in keeping with the DEGREE target. The new three-year cycle will begin in fiscal 2023 with a new BCG web-based training course for all employees.
In addition, materials are regularly made available for the so-called Integrity Dialogs. In this initiative, managers have an opportunity to discuss current compliance issues with their teams as well as to specifically communicate and provide information about selected compliance topics.
Additional learning measures are planned and initiated according to regional conditions. A learning management system helps track mandatory training courses. The completion of training requirements is regularly reported to the management of the respective unit.
Collaboration with business partners
Under certain circumstances, Siemens can be held liable for the illegal activities of certain third parties (such as business partners acting as intermediaries, resellers, and consortium partners), whom we refer to as business partners. That is because transac- tions with Siemens could be misused to gain undue advantages for the business partner, or for Siemens.
Each Siemens unit is responsible for its own business partners. They must be carefully selected by the responsible operational unit and must undergo a risk-based compliance due diligence process. Business partners need to be adequately monitored for the duration of the business relationship; in other words, the need for the relationship and performance, taking into account remuneration and other accompanying circumstances, is regu- larly reassessed. We have established mandatory processes and related tools for this purpose that are continuously refined to cover risks that arise.
     E Ethics
Progress DEGREE Ethics #3: Striving to train 100% of our people on Siemens’ Business Conduct Guidelines every three years
As part of the DEGREE Framework, Siemens has set itself the goal of training all employees on the subject of the BCGs in a three-year cycle. The first cycle, in which 99.9% of employees worldwide were trained on the BCGs, covered the years 2020 to 2022. Thus, the DEGREE target for Ethics was nearly achieved.
Progress
From FY 20 99.9% 100% by 2022 Siemens without SHS
 1 This figure includes Siemens Healthineers employees. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 44

 3.1 Compliance and Ethics
Decisions about engaging a business partner are transparent and risk-oriented, and are based on the most recent compliance due diligence procedures. Appropriate remediation measures are initiated depending on the risk classification of the business relationship and the risks identified.
Both business partners and suppliers are required to sign a code of conduct. In addition, depending on the risk classification, audits can be carried out at the business partners’ premises by the Siemens audit function or external service providers.
SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES
To support the compliance experts regarding business partner topics, Siemens established the Business Partners Network two years ago. This network operates in different workstreams, some of which related to specific projects and others related to specific questions on the subject of collaboration with business partners.
Early detection of warning signs of money laundering
Siemens has a declared goal of doing business only with reliable customers, business partners, and other third parties. That’s why we perform risk-based checks of our business counterparts’ iden- tity and financial backgrounds as well as the origin of their pay- ments in order to ensure that payments come from legitimate sources. Where necessary, Siemens reports suspicious matters to the responsible authorities.
A new anti-money laundering training course is planned for the coming fiscal year. Certain groups of employees who typically encounter issues related to anti-money laundering laws will receive intensive training on the subject of potential anti-money laundering red flags.
Company-wide process for the handling of compliance cases (simplified presentation)
The goal is to ensure that employees can identify signs of money laundering or terrorist financing at the earliest possible stage and when necessary initiate mitigation measures, in cooperation with the Compliance Department, to reduce the risk to the company.
Handling of compliance cases
At Siemens, compliance cases are handled in accordance with a clearly structured process comprising all steps from reporting channels to internal investigations and responses to identified violations (see the diagram below).
Siemens makes different reporting channels available to all em- ployees and outside third parties to ensure that the company is made aware of any compliance violations. For example, com- plaints can be reported by way of the protected whistleblower system “Tell Us” or to the independent Siemens ombudsperson. Reports received by way of these channels are forwarded to our compliance organization. Complaints can also be reported directly to the Compliance Officers in our business units or to the senior management.
Every complaint is taken seriously. If the allegations prove to be sufficiently plausible, the Compliance organization determines whether there is sufficient information to justify an internal investigation. Indications of other matters are forwarded to the affected Siemens department or business unit for further action.
              Allegation received

3.1 Compliance and Ethics
Throughout the company, internal investigations are conducted on the basis of binding, clearly defined standards to ensure the fair and respectful treatment of employees. These standards prohibit unlawful or disproportionate actions. If an internal investigation leads to the finding that employees have demon- strably violated any laws or internal regulations, they can expect appropriate disciplinary consequences.
All circumstances of a given case, including the locally applicable legal environment, and any participation rights of the competent employee representative bodies are duly considered in the course of the proceedings.
The affected Siemens entities are obligated to implement the additional recommendations included in the investigation re- ports, including measures to rectify any deficiencies, in order to effectively remedy the situation.
Whistleblowers at Siemens are protected by internal regulations that prohibit the punishment or other detrimental treatment of whistleblowers who report suspicious activity in good faith.
Compliance indicators and whistleblowers
Our employees make regular use of our reporting channels. In total, 363 compliance cases requiring additional inquiry or inves- tigations were reported in fiscal 2022. We believe that the decrease in compliance cases from the previous year falls within the range of normal fluctuation. The total number of disciplinary measures imposed for compliance violations was 212 in fiscal 2022.
The number of disciplinary measures in a fiscal year does not necessarily reflect the number of compliance cases reported in the same period. Frequently, disciplinary action is not taken in the year in which the underlying cases were reported or the in- vestigation – which follows a careful procedure – was completed. A compliance case may also result in multiple disciplinary actions or none at all.

Continuing and discontinued operations
Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components, transfer, and suspension
We believe that the evidence demonstrates that our compliance system is well designed and effectively implemented. Due to the nature of our business operations, the environments where we work, and geographic breadth, we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual.
More information on significant ongoing and future charges of corruption, antitrust violations, and other violations of the law can be found in SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2022, COM- BINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8.3.4 COMPLIANCE RISK AND NOTES 22 LITIGATIONS
Collective Action and
the Siemens Integrity Initiative
If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption and fostering fair competition, large numbers of stakeholders must act collectively. The global Siemens Integrity Initiative earmarks more than US$100 million to support organizations and projects that combat corruption and fraud through Collective Action, education, and training. The Siemens Integrity Initiative focuses on supporting projects that have a clear impact on the business environment, can demonstrate objective and measurable results, and have the potential to be scaled up and replicated.
Building upon the Third Funding Round, we invited short-listed partners to submit applications for additional support, adhering to the published criteria for application and selection. A team of experts from various disciplines and regions carefully reviewed the projects, presented them to the Siemens Steering Committee for approval, and then introduced them to the World Bank for what is known as the “non-veto” process and to the European Investment Bank for information.

3.1 Compliance and Ethics
In July 2021, we announced a total of up to US$20.5 million in funding for eight new projects with activities over three years in more than 27 countries.
So far we have allocated approximately US$120 million for 85 projects in more than 50 countries across all funding rounds. Detailed information on this subject is provided in the annual reports of the Siemens Integrity Initiative.
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INTEGRITY-INITIATIVE
US$120 million support for 85 projects in 50 countries
The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes one element of a 2009 settlement between Siemens and the World Bank and an- other 2013 settlement between Siemens and the European In- vestment Bank (EIB).
Results and progress in fiscal 2022
In fiscal 2022, we again made significant progress with our Siemens compliance system, including:
→ The new compliance pact for our Mobility high-speed rail project was presented as a prime example of the practical implementation of Collective Action at the Conference of States Parties to the UN Convention Against Corruption, which was held in Egypt. The compliance pact is designed to prevent conflicts of interest and ensure compliance with anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, and antitrust laws.
→ As part of our continuous improvement measures at Com- pliance, we have enhanced our integrated risk management approach to include a continuous monitoring and update concept that enables us to more quickly adapt to factors such as emerging risks, business transformation, and changing regulatory and geopolitical conditions.
Outlook for fiscal 2023
Our paramount goal is to provide Siemens with the highest level of certainty in matters of compliance and to promote a market environment of integrity.
We will continue our development of a compliance system tai- lored to the individual risks and opportunities of our businesses and our organizational structure at Siemens.
To keep pace with the digital transformation of our company, we are transforming and modernizing the technology that supports our compliance management system. With the new cloud-based solutions, we will further streamline and automate our risk-based compliance processes and leverage for data-driven holistic risk management and continuous control activities.
We will also continue to implement the projects of the Siemens Integrity Initiative and monitor their progress.
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INTEGRITY-INITIATIVE
Finally, we will communicate our ethical principles more inten- sively and embed them in training courses and internal process- es in the current fiscal year.
“Ethical corporate governance and
compliance are non-negotiable. Our
approach goes beyond strict
compliance with laws and
regulations by placing integrity at
the center of our corporate culture
and business processes.”
CEO Roland Busch
In the Siemens Global Employee Survey to be conducted in fiscal 2023, we will again elicit feedback from our employees on the subject of integrity and ethics at Siemens and formulate appro- priate measures on the basis of their responses.
 SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 47

 3.2 Human rights
3.2
Human rights
– Respect for human rights remains in focus at all times – Commitment to compliance with international standards – Inclusion of all key partners
As a global company, we are well aware of our responsibility to society. We are unreservedly committed to safeguarding and respecting human rights in every stage of the value chain. We understand this to be a key element of acting with integrity and responsible corporate governance. Our holistic approach to respecting human rights is not limited to our own business loca- tions: We also consider our supply chain and the business activ- ities of our customers. Our goal and aspiration is to identify any human rights violations occurring anywhere in our value chain as early as possible and to mitigate identified risks responsibly.
Our DEGREE framework consists of different components to ad- dress the multifaceted issue of human rights in the areas of G (Governance), E (Ethics), and E (Equity). In the following, the human rights-related topics in the DEGREE framework are outlined.
Commitment to human rights and international standards
The principle of respect for human rights is firmly grounded in the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Siemens believes that the corresponding Sustainability Develop- ment Goals (SDGs) can only be fully achieved if any potentially negative impacts within the value chains are examined in great- er detail and effective action is taken to counter them. In these efforts, we are guided by international standards that help com- panies define their approaches to human rights and continuously optimize them. These standards include the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Guide- lines for Multinational Enterprises published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). They high- light the importance of a due diligence process that is able to proactively identify, assess, and prevent any human rights viola-
tions to protect those affected or at least mitigate their impacts as much as possible.
The Business Conduct Guidelines
Our pledge to safeguard human rights is anchored in our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs) COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS. They set out the fundamental principles and rules that apply to our actions within our company and in relation to our customers, external partners, and the public. The BCGs are binding on all employees worldwide. In addition, the Siemens Group Code of Conduct, which is mainly focused on rules of conduct in relation to human rights, applies to the company’s suppliers, third-party intermediaries, and business partners.
Beyond that, Siemens AG reaffirmed its commitment to workers’ fundamental rights in an International Framework Agreement signed with trade unions and employee representatives in 2012.
Management and responsibilities
Our actions in support of respect for human rights and our com- mitment to implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights are monitored by the Siemens Managing Board and the Siemens Sustainability Board (SSB). These bodies discuss both progress and challenges and identify improvement measures. Furthermore, the Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Supervisory Board and Managing Board at a regular and also on an ad hoc basis on topics relating to human rights.
The SSB has assigned overall responsibility for human rights to the Sustainability and Compliance departments, which are charged with the task of proactively and systematically ensuring that respect for human rights is more deeply embedded in the company’s worldwide processes and business decisions. To this end, the two departments continually identify and address improvement potential on the basis of the major principles of business conduct and human rights set out in the UN Global Compact. The departments Supply Chain, People and Organiza-
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 48

3.2 Human rights
tion, Environment, Health and Safety, Corporate Security, and Siemens Real Estate are responsible for embedding and main- taining human rights-related due diligence obligations within their business processes. This responsibility also includes func- tionally relevant training and continuing education.
HUMAN RIGHTS FRAMEWORK AT SIEMENS
Continuous improvement measures
We view living up to our responsibility for human rights as a continuous improvement process. Siemens employs risk man- agement programs and procedures across its value chain to systematically identify and assess risks of human rights violations at an early stage and mitigate these risks to the extent that they
can be influenced by the company. After the rollout of our new due diligence approach in the area of human rights, we focused on target group-appropriate competence development and the incorporation of this approach into the risk management pro- cesses of the individual business units in fiscal 2022.
Human rights in the supply chain
Maintaining sustainable supply chains is one of our guiding prin- ciples. Siemens suppliers commit to uphold the Siemens Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries and Business Partners, which affirms the fundamental human rights of our suppliers’ employees.
 Siemens’ human rights framework
 I. Periodic human rights impact review process
 How are the material human right aspects and human rights risk issues Periodic review for Siemens periodically identified?
 II. Transactional human rights due diligence process
   Risk identification
How are risks in projects identified?
Risk assessment
How are risks assessed?
 Grievance mechanism How are effective complaint channels provided?
Risk management
(incl. monitoring) What are effective mitigation measures?
 Awareness How is awareness about human rights issues ensured at Siemens?
III. Overarching pillars
  Policy and circulars
How is Siemens’ commitment to respecting human rights embedded in policies and circulars?
 Training and competence building How do you develop target group-specific human rights training for Siemens?
 Reporting and external How are human rights activities and issues disclosed?
 Stakeholder engagement How do you build an open dialog with external and internal stakeholders?
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 49

3.2 Human rights
This Code encompasses, but is not limited to, the following points:
→ Fair working conditions (pay, working hours, vacation),
→ Right to freedom of association,
→ Responsibility for health and safety standards, → Prohibition of discrimination,
→ Prohibition of forced labor and child labor,
→ Provision of anonymous grievance mechanisms.
Siemens takes a risk-based approach to identifying potential risks in its supply chain. This includes Corporate Responsibility Self- Assessments (CRSAs) by suppliers, internal quality audits with sustainability questions, and external sustainability audits. Whenever deviations are identified from the principles of the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers, and therefore also violations of the human rights principles defined in this docu- ment, we work with the supplier to clarify how lasting corrective action can be taken within a reasonable time frame.
SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PRACTICES
In case of severe violations, we reserve the right to terminate the supplier relationship. MATERIAL HUMAN RIGHTS RISK ISSUES WITHIN OUR VALUE CHAIN
With regard to the new German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act (LkSG), which is applicable to Siemens as of January 1, 2023, we have established a cross-functional working group to evaluate the effects of the new law on Siemens and meet any new requirements in a timely manner.
Human rights in the workplace
The BCGs BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES are an integral element of all employment contracts. Every employee is responsible for respecting human rights. Siemens does not tolerate discrimina- tion, sexual harassment, or any other form of personal attack on individuals or groups. In addition, the principles of equal oppor- tunity and equal treatment apply without restriction. We promote diversity in line with our strategic DEGREE Framework aspirations of Equity and Ethics. We have set ourselves the goal of having 30% of the company’s senior management positions held by women by the year 2025. Another goal is for 100% of our employees to receive training on the subject of our BCGs. We champion diversity, equal opportunity, and inclusion in the in- terest of creating an open and appreciative work environment
for our people. We acknowledge that we must ourselves effect the transformation we want and remain committed to creating a more equitable, more sustainable future.
Siemens launched the internal initiative “Together We Rise” in January 2022 to promote diversity and women’s rights in the workplace. The goal is for women to work on issues of common interest and support each other through networking, coaching, and mentoring. Around 250 female employees from Middle Eastern countries like Egypt, Qatar, Kuwait, Oman, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates are taking part in this initiative.
In fiscal 2022, moreover, Siemens India conducted an impact assessment of human rights-related risk categories at roughly 20 Siemens locations in India, with a particular emphasis on risk areas such as discrimination and working conditions. The find- ings will be evaluated in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and will serve both as the basis for the development of targeted measures to mitigate or preferably prevent the identified risks in the future and to fulfill the reporting requirements following the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)
Fair pay, right to collective bargaining, and freedom of association
The principles of fair pay, right to collective bargaining, and free- dom of association are embedded in the Siemens BCGs and in the International Framework Agreement COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS. Fair pay is an integral aspect of appreciative and respectful rela- tions with employees. In line with national laws and regulations, Siemens is guided by the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. In Germany, for example, the pay system according to the col- lective bargaining agreements is determined in the course of collective bargaining negotiations. 78% of employees in Germany are covered by collective agreements.
Additional information can be found in the Chapters WORKING AT SIEMENS and DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
Human rights in customer related business decision
Siemens is committed to operationalize systematic human rights due diligence along its value chain. This is also applicable for customer related business decision.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 50

3.2 Human rights
The global web-based training program for environmental, social, and human rights due diligence was continued in fiscal 2022. Although the training program is available to all employees, participation is obligatory for a defined target group consisting of senior managers, salespeople, and risk management profes- sionals. Additionally to the 31,000 employees who have per- formed the training in fiscal year 2021, another 6,546 employees completed the training in fiscal year 2022.
A survey of required training fields was conducted in fiscal 2022 with the aim of promoting competence development. The target group participating in the survey was composed of the Sustain- ability Managers and ESG Managers at business level as well as Sustainability Managers in key functions. The majority of respon- dents stated that additional support is needed in the fields of “entrepreneurial responsibility in conflict regions” and “high-risk sectors.” Target group-appropriate training courses will be given on these subjects in the course of fiscal 2023 to ensure compe- tence development.
Siemens also plans to hold moderated external and internal expert dialogs and regular knowledge sharing with internal experts in the area of environmental and social risks.
Grievance mechanism and channels
Siemens offers all our people and outside third parties protected channels for reporting violations of external and internal rules. The reports generated by these channels are forwarded to our Compliance organization and followed up. The same channels can also be used to report human rights violations to the company.
COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS
In September 2022, Siemens India issued a comprehensive guideline defining the grievance mechanism for permanent employees and temporary workers, after which the framework was developed in conjunction with a local benchmarking project. The framework defines employee grievances and assigns respon- sibilities in accordance with the reporting requirements of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR).
WWW.SIEMENS.COM/HUMANRIGHTS
1 econsense is a Forum for the Sustainable Development of German Business. SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 52
Networks and coalitions
A regular dialog with peer group companies creates a platform founded on mutual trust for a more in-depth discussion of human rights. This also helps us come up with fresh ideas and harness past experiences for continuous improvement measures within our company. This kind of mutual dialog focuses on discussing challenges and solutions, addressing conflicts of goals, and iden- tifying possible areas of shared action. After all, we firmly believe that we can achieve faster progress by concerted action than by acting alone.
Siemens is a member of the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI). This initiative is one of the leading international network initiatives in the area of human rights, consisting of more than 23 companies from all over the world. Siemens is also represented in the European Business and Human Rights Peer Learning Group of the UN Global Compact Network. In Germany, Siemens is involved in the working groups of econsense 1 in the areas of business and human rights and human rights in the supply chain.
Besides regular dialog with peer groups and think tanks, we also interact continually with external human rights advisors on the subject of training, sensitization, and due diligence. In addition, we communicate continually with investors, shareholders, rating agencies, and NGOs.
 Self-assessments completed mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume of >€50,000 per year. Questionnaires that were initiatied, completed, and concluded in the reporting period.
2 Commonwealth of Independent States.
3 Improvement measures agreed upon with suppliers relate either to actual
deviations from the Code of Conduct or to structural improvements in management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines implemented by the supplier.
Quality audits with sustainability questions
The quality audits of suppliers conducted by Siemens auditors include questions on the subject of sustainability that cover all aspects and requirements of the Code of Conduct. We conduct- ed 321 on-site audits worldwide in fiscal 2022. This equals the amount of the previous year almost exactly.
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.
2 Includes audits conducted virtually as well as audits carried out by third parties at
our suppliers based on the same standards and are accepted by Siemens.
3 Improvement measures agreed upon with suppliers relate either to actual
deviations from the Code of Conduct or to structural improvements in management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines implemented by the supplier.
We slightly increased the number of external sustainability audits compared to fiscal 2021: in 2022, the figure rose by about 8% to 426 audits. This figure includes 37 audits that we conducted virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic, where the auditor in- spected the supplier’s facility by a remote video link. It also in- cludes 12 audits verified by our auditor that were conducted on behalf of third parties at companies that are also in a supplier re- lationship with Siemens. These audit reports fully comply with Siemens requirements and were provided to us with the approval of the audited companies.
       Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions


7.3 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Together with the bottom-up approach, these measures enable a comprehensive overview of our business activities and the related risks and opportunities.
Climate change is not treated as a separate category within the ERM approach, but is considered within the four topic areas of strategic, operational, financial, and compliance-related risks. Risk processes have been implemented upstream throughout the company to assess potential climate-related net risks for ERM reporting.
Material opportunities and risks are disclosed on an aggregated basis within the above-mentioned four topic areas in the Siemens annual report. SIEMENS FINANCIAL REPORT FOR FISCAL 2022, COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT, CHAPTER 8, CDP 2022 C2.1 AND C2.2
Metrics and targets
Siemens considers climate-related risks and opportunities along the entire value chain. Accordingly, we define metrics for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain, in the company’s own operations, and for the goods and services we provide to our customers.
In 2015, Siemens made a pledge to achieve climate neutrality. We were the first global industrial company to take this step. By joining the Science Based Targets initiative and committing to decarbonization targets under the DEGREE framework, we have reinforced our existing decarbonization activities along the entire value chain. Our validated 1.5-degree Celsius Science Based Target, coupled with our membership of the RE100, EV100, and EP100 initiatives, is strengthening our climate protection strategy.
By joining the Science Based Targets initiative, Siemens has pledged to reduce emissions from its own operations (Scopes 1 and 2) by 50% by 2030 and its Scope 3 emissions (upstream and downstream) by 15%, compared to 2019. A number of ongoing activities will contribute to this GHG reduction, including the reduction of building emissions, the electrification of the com- pany’s motor vehicle fleet, and our Carbon Reduction @ Suppliers approach.
At Siemens, we bundle our binding targets and measures relating to climate protection under “D” (Decarbonization) in our DEGREE sustainability framework. For our KPI “Net Zero operations by 2030,” we have accelerated our reduction target for our business operations (Scopes 1 and 2) for Siemens without SHS to – 55% by 2025 compared to 2019. By 2030, we aim to reduce emissions by 90% instead of 50% compared to 2019. As set out in the DEGREE framework, we also aim to reduce upstream supply chain emissions 20% by 2030 (compared to base year 2020) and then reduce them to Net Zero by 2050.
After 2030, we will continue to focus on implementing carbon reduction measures in our operations. We will then offset the remaining GHG emissions with CO2 certificates that meet estab- lished standards in order to keep our Net Zero 2030 pledge. An internal offsetting guidance has laid the basis for purchasing CO2 certificates. This guidance is meant to ensure the consistency and quality of offset programs.
CLIMATE ACTION, CDP 2022 C3, C4, C6, C7, C9 AND C12
The “R” in our DEGREE sustainability framework stands for re- source efficiency. To exercise product stewardship regarding environmental protection, the comprehensive environmental program Eco Efficiency @ Siemens has defined special environ- mental protection priorities in the categories “Robust Eco Design” and “Clean Supply Chain.”
“Robust Eco Design” (RED) pursues the vision of a product life cycle that is as environmentally compatible as possible, and in which all materials are recycled. At the same time, material and energy flows and losses are to be reduced to a necessary mini- mum. To achieve this, it is crucially important to begin address- ing, as early as possible, the environmental impacts expected in each of the product’s life-cycle phases.
The RED approach is based on the international standard IEC 62430 “Environmentally Conscious Design for Electrical and Electronic Products” and our internal EP standard. They ensure that we meet all requirements for an environmentally compatible product design.
SIEMENS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 140


  Anti-corruption
1. Total percentage of governance body members, employees and business partners who have received training on the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, broken down by region.
a) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, but related to previous years; and
b) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, related to this year.
2. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to improve the broader operating environment and culture, in order to combat corruption.






