Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /one.fitted/nine.fittedFor fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , the following risks with significant sustainability rele - vance were reported within the ERM : • Critical supply chain • Market and price development ( e.g. , shift from conventional toward renewable energy in the markets ) • Technology/portfolio gap compared to competitors • Threats to cybersecurity , including product and solution security • Climate change and decarbonization trend • Pandemic diseases • Adverse environment , health and safety ( EHS ) events • Adverse developments in financial and bank markets ( e.g. , financing restrictions due to sustainability prerequisites ) • Requirements arising from ESG standards • Allegation of compliance violation For information related to these risks , please refer to the  Siemens Energy Annual Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , Report on material risks and opportunities . A detailed description of climate-related risks and opportunities can be found in our Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures ( TCFD ) section in the  Annex . We are continually taking steps to reduce our sustainability-related risk exposure within the organization and across the value chain by imple - menting risk management systems adapted to specific industries and responsibilities . On the other hand , risk mitigation actions also represent opportunities for our business , for example innovations that support the energy transition and streamlining of internal processes . With ongoing developments in national and international reporting require - ments , we collaborate internally and with external partners to analyze new regulations and standards , voice our position on them in cross-industrial tral to our sustainability strategy . Their feedback helps us respond quickly to dynamic market requirements , global developments and future trends . This approach is in line with SDG /one.fitted/seven.fitted , which calls for a global partnership that brings together governments , civil society , the private sector , the UN and other stakeholders . Close collaboration with different stakeholders is necessary to tackle the complex challenges we are facing . Working on these problems across orga - nizations using a full range of resources , perspectives and experience can Formats of engagementStakeholder group Topics we engage onEmployees All hands meetings , open sessions between leaders and employees ( ask me anything ) , location visits , letters by Board Members , emails , training sessions , Yammer communication , awards Health & safety , culture , inclusion & diversity , inno - vation , employee develop - ment , company strategy and organizational topicsCustomers Conferences , trade fairs , bilateral engagement , questionnaires ( e.g. , EcoVadis , NQC ) Decarbonization roadmaps , Sustainability Program , product-related topics , project due diligenceStakeholder engagement Politics , associations , civil society UN Global Compact , indus - try-speciﬁc forums and con - ferences , local engagement , participation in One Young World summit , industry associations , direct govern - mental contacts ( ministries , parliament , etc . ) Sustainability , decarbon - ization , energy security , global challenges , business supportShareholders and capital market Quarterly earnings calls , Annual Report , annual shareholder 's meeting , regular roadshows and conference participation , investor relations website Sustainability Program and targets , sustainable portfo - lio , energy transition , social engagement and corporate governance topicsBanks , ﬁnancial institutions Mandatory reporting and information ( e.g. , Annual Report , Sustainability Report ) , bilateral meetings ( know your customer process ) Sustainability performance , ESG-linked ﬁnancingSuppliers Initiatives ( e.g. , Responsible Minerals Initiative , European Partnership for Responsible Minerals ( EPRM ) , OECD Multi-Stakeholder Steering Group ( MSG ) , Copper Mark ) , supplier days , workshops , bilateral engagement Sustainability performance , decarbonization , responsi - ble minerals sourcingassociations and assess their importance for and effects on Siemens Energy . One example of this engagement is our participation in the Sustainable Finance Advisory Committee of the German Federal Government that aims to turn Germany into a leading location for sustainable finance . Stakeholder engagement and collaborations We firmly believe that sustainable development can only be achieved through the cooperation of a diverse set of actors . Regular dialogue with our stakeholders on the issues that affect our business and society is cen -Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /two.fitted/zero.fittedlead to better innovation and business outcomes that benefit society . In our new Corporate Center in Berlin , Energy Sphere , we aim to lead a dia - logue with politicians , customers and other stakeholders from around the world and showcase technologies to master the energy transition . The exchange of knowledge through these engagements creates value on all sides and reduces risks externally and internally . At Siemens Energy , we continuously analyze existing partnerships and memberships . We are also continually establishing new relationships with investors , customers , sup - pliers , employees , communities , policymakers , media , non-governmental organizations , business organizations and academia . We are a signatory to the  UN Global Compact ( UNGC ) , pledging our commitment to its Ten Prin - ciples , and are a member of econsense , the German sustainability network . We actively engage in political bodies , for example in the Roundtable on clean hydrogen in the energy sector , of which our CEO is the chairman , or in Nigeria with the Presidential Power Initiative . We partner closely with government think tanks , for example in China , where Siemens Energy col - laborates with the State Power Investment Corporation ( SPIC ) , one of the world ’ s leading power generation companies with the largest installed capacity of solar power . Through our engagement on the board of Norwegian Energy Solutions we support business leaders in their endeavor to accelerate the energy transition , drawing on their broad expertise in the oil and gas industries.As part of our partnership with the International Renewable Energy Agency ( IRENA ) , Siemens Energy is participating in a workstream that focuses on the assessment of energy healthcare facilities in Burkina Faso . In Septem - ber /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , the new IRENA Decarbonization Alliance was announced that aims to facilitate dialogue on decarbonization . We are continuing to host our “ Energy Weeks ” throughout the year . The events consist of three-day virtual sessions that bring together global energy businesses , market leaders , policymakers and government repre - sentatives to discuss regional challenges and opportunities facing the energy sector in its transformation toward decarbonized energy systems . Joint white paper on China ’ s low-carbon energy development In China , Siemens Energy has teamed up with the State Power Investment Corporation ( SPIC ) , the world ’ s largest solar power generation company and one of the largest energy companies in China , to study policy trends and the low-carbon development of counties across the nation . It also analyzed typical development patterns , drew comparisons between China and Germany and rec - ommended roadmaps for the low-carbon development of China at the county level . The research was published in a white paper and released by Siemens Energy CEO Christian Bruch and SPIC Chairman Qian Zhimin in late /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted to coincide with the /five.fitted/zero.fittedth anniversary of German- Chinese diplomatic relations . Roadmap for low-carbon development in ChinaAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /two.fitted/five.fittedR & D at SGRE is focused on developing the next generation of technology that will lead to improved and more cost-effective products , solutions and services . SGRE is developing reliable and efficient wind turbines for both onshore and offshore applications to reduce the Levelized Cost of Energy ( LCoE ) and solutions for hybridization that are designed to help utility cus - tomers optimize the use of renewable energy and its production of green hydrogen . SGRE is also exploring opportunities in adjacent business fields , including other renewable energy sources , hybrid parks and storage in order to deliver solutions for the system integration of renewables.The SGRE innovation culture team specifically supports the above with company-wide design thinking training sessions and team workshops for employees as required . These include , for example , a series of in-person internal workshops on innovation tools to solve specific challenges , started in /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . Continuous product upgrades and designs of its onshore and offshore tur - bines to reduce the LCoE and/or increase annual energy production are aimed at strengthening the company ’ s competitiveness . SGRE product inno -vations have received recognition in the industry . For example , the offshore turbine /one.fitted/four.fitted-/two.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted DD won the `` Product Innovation of the Year '' award issued by the German Renewable Awards in November /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted . For more details , please refer to the  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , A./one.fitted./six.fitted Innovation , Research & Development . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , Siemens Energy invested €/one.fitted , /zero.fitted/seven.fitted/eight.fitted million in R & D ( fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : €/one.fitted , /one.fitted/five.fitted/five.fitted million ) . The resulting research intensity , defined as the ratio of R & D expenses to revenue , was /three.fitted./seven.fitted % ( fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : /four.fitted./one.fitted % ) . Addi - tions to capitalized development expenses amounted to €/one.fitted/nine.fitted/three.fitted million ( fis - cal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : €/one.fitted/eight.fitted/eight.fitted million ) in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . Around /one.fitted/eight.fitted , /three.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted ( September /three.fitted/zero.fitted , /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : /one.fitted/eight.fitted , /three.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted ) patents were held by Siemens Energy as of September /three.fitted/zero.fitted , /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . On average , we had about /five.fitted , /three.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted ( fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : /four.fitted , /nine.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted ) R & D employees in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted.Floating wind farms Floating wind farm technology is offering new opportunities to har - ness clean offshore wind energy further out to sea , where the winds are stronger and more consistent but the sea is too deep to build fixed turbines . Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy is a pioneer in the float - ing wind farm market and is involved in several projects in the North Sea , including the Karmoy demonstration project off the coast of Norway and the Hywind Scotland commercial wind farm . Its latest project , Hywind Tampen , was installed in /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , /one.fitted/four.fitted/zero.fitted kilometers off the coast of Norway , at a water depth of /two.fitted/six.fitted/zero.fitted to /three.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted meters . The /one.fitted/one.fitted turbines are moored on floating cylindrical spar buoys and anchored to the seabed by chains . Hywind Tampen , pioneering floating offshore wind technology Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /three.fitted/nine.fittedSocietal engagement Our global engagement addresses needs in the countries in which we operate . € 3.62 million total donationsSummary page ¹ At reporting segment GP . Compliance & integrity Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance . Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all executives and employees worldwide94 % of employees trained on our Business Conduct GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment , game-changing leaders and a vibrant workforce . Share of females Training hours 10.3 Total average training hours per employeein top leadership positions¹ 22 % Our target top leadership positions by 2025 25 % by 2030 30 % Sustainable supply chain management We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a sustainable supply chain . € 21.5 billion procurement volume106 % increase in supplier self- assessments6 % increase in external sustainability auditsHuman rights We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights along the value chain within our sphere of influence . We conduct human rights due diligence for our customer projectsThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /four.fitted/one.fittedHealth and safety culture provides the foundation Siemens Energy is committed to not only protecting the environment but also managing the health , safety and well-being of our employees , part - ners and other stakeholders who may be affected by our business and operational activities . That is why our priority is a strong Zero Harm Frame - work , which is driven by our essentials , behaviors and principles ( see graphic on Zero Harm ) . The GP Zero Harm Framework intends to promote Zero Harm culture , placing responsibility on each local manager to develop and implement the principles , discuss elements that will be included in their program with their teams , and then reinforce them as part of daily work . With our global EHS reporting tool , we can continuously monitor any con - cerns raised by employees , with each case treated locally according to our reporting process . GP is currently implementing a new global software solution covering Environmental , Health , Safety , Security and Product Safety incidents . The software is flexible , able to grow with our company requirements , and will be fully operational in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/three.fitted . SGRE is implementing the same software for health , safety and environment ( HSE ) topics . SGRE also continues to instill a strong Zero Harm culture across the global business . Its initiatives include “ Safety is My Choice ” and the /one.fitted/zero.fitted Life-Saving Rules . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , SGRE created a strategic plan with the aim of enhanc - ing their Zero Harm culture focused on prevention and based on scientific facts to achieve Zero Harm in HSE and to continuously improve the well- being of employees . The strategic plan was built around three main pillars : Engage , Empower and Ensure . Particular elements of the plan deemed strategic priorities for /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted included : • Operational risk control , including the deployment of a global Setting to Work procedure that outlines the process by which work activities should be approached safely • Contractor management , including performance monitoring and the launch of new requirements • HSE competence using a competency assessment tool for HSE profes - sionals that allows employees and managers to perform competency self-assessments and then develop appropriate action plans • Data-driven actions with a sharp focus on eliminating incidents • A simple and aligned safety system , including the release of an updated HSE Principles procedure For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted B/two.fitted . Health & Safety .GP has implemented an EHS training tool that provides employees with the opportunity to develop both individual and team-based EHS skills and knowledge , meet regulatory requirements associated with their job roles , and integrate the Zero Harm Framework . As an improvement to the corpo - rate training tool , we have reviewed the EHS courses and aligned them with the Zero Harm Framework to provide a core set of training courses that are directly aligned with each Zero Harm element . SGRE has a standardized training platform with the required EHS training courses made available to employees and contractors.Principles Foundation for strong and well- connected governance and assurance at all levels in our organization Behaviors To be demonstrated by everyone in our company , no matter the type of work Essentials Must be complied with by everyone performing this type of high-risk activityZero Harm at Siemens Energy Risk assessmentZero Harm is achievable Health Conﬁned space Working at height Vehicle safetyMachine guarding and interlockingSTOP ! We take care of each other DrivingWe do not compromise Environment Cranes and liftingHazardous energy controlElectrical safetyExplosive gases and vaporsIncident managementWe develop locally and share globallyAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /five.fitted/three.fittedSustainable supply chain management Binding Code of Conduct for suppliers All GP suppliers and third-party intermediaries must sign the Code of Con - duct ( CoC ) for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries . The CoC is based on the Business Conduct Guidelines ( BCG ) and Principles of the UNGC . The CoC requires specific environmental , compliance and labor standards to be established across all countries of operations . In June /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , we expanded our CoC to include a cybersecurity clause . It now includes the following topics : • Human rights and labor practices , including ( among others ) : ›Prohibition of forced labor ›Prohibition of child labor ›Health and safety of employees ›Grievance mechanism • Environmental protection • Fair operating practices , including ( among others ) : ›Anti-corruption and bribery ›Anti-money laundering , terrorism financing ›Data privacy and cybersecurity • Responsible minerals sourcing • Compliance with the CoC principles in the supply chain of the supplier Similarly , SGRE requires its suppliers to comply with its CoC for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries , established in line with SGRE principles and values according to its BCG and its Global Corporate Social Responsi - bility Policy . Its requirements aim to ensure that working conditions in the • Supplier management processes apply strict criteria for selection • Increased supply chain risks addressed through preventative action • Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments are an integral part of the supplier qualification process Our supplier network extends across /one.fitted/three.fitted/nine.fitted countries worldwide . As interna - tional regulations for corporate responsibility tighten and global disrup - tions due to conflict , the pandemic and climate change increase , it is cru - cial we manage our supply chain sustainably , transparently and responsibly to make it more resilient . We aim to achieve this through solid relation - ships with suppliers that share our values and are equally committed to the protection of human rights , fair labor practices , anti-corruption mea - sures and the environment . By anchoring sustainability criteria in the selection , qualification , assess - ment and development of our suppliers , we are contributing to the UN SDGs . With approximately /three.fitted/zero.fitted , /zero.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted suppliers and a procurement volume of €/two.fitted/one.fitted./five.fitted billion in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted ( fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : €/one.fitted/seven.fitted./three.fitted billion ) , we see our biggest contributions to SDG /eight.fitted “ Decent Work and Economic Growth ” and SDG /one.fitted/two.fitted “ Responsible Consumption and Production ” . To meet these SDGs , we carefully consider labor conditions throughout upstream production processes and monitor the impact of our activities closely . We have also rolled out a global supplier decarbonization program to further increase transparency around our carbon emissions in our supply chain ( see chap - ter  Decarbonization ) and address climate protection within our supply chain . This , in turn , addresses SDG /one.fitted/three.fitted “ Climate Action ” . While it is evident that climate change will have a major impact on global supply chains , it is vital we are prepared for other risks , such as global pan - demics . Since the onset of COVID-/one.fitted/nine.fitted , there have been multiple and ongo - ing disruptions to supply chains worldwide . With the war in Ukraine and a further COVID-/one.fitted/nine.fitted outbreak in China , the situation has become even more challenging . These events are compounding the existing logistics short - ages and interruptions . Siemens Energy Procurement has been working together with operations and our project teams to mitigate the effects and safeguard customer commitments . By establishing a systematic supply chain resilience and crisis management procedure , we have been able to detect risks early , prepare preventive action and define mitigation mea - sures to reduce risk exposures . An important factor in our risk management is our relationship to our sup - pliers . We therefore have processes and policies in place that aim to ensure suppliers meet specific ESG requirements.Sustainable business requires a sustainable supply chain . We work in partnership with our global suppliers to uphold international standards for social and environmental responsibility.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /five.fitted/four.fittedsupply chain are safe , that workers are treated with respect and dignity , and that business operations with suppliers are ethically , socially and envi - ronmentally responsible . Next to the CoC , SGRE ’ s Supplier Relationship Pol - icy , General Purchasing Conditions , and internal rules and procedures all set minimum requirements for suppliers to comply with . For further infor - mation please refer to SGRE ’ s  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , E/three.fitted . Responsible Supply Chain . Comprehensive supplier management GP ’ s supply chain management approach defines strategic procurement processes to sustain the company ’ s long-term success , which are overseen by the Head of Procurement , reporting to the Executive Board . The approach includes purchasing materials and services cost-effectively , ascertaining high quality standards along the entire supply chain , identify - ing and exploiting opportunities to create value through procurement competence and fostering compliance and sustainability . The supplier management process in place encompasses an extensive range of procedures and tools to enable transparency and awareness regarding expenses , supplier data and related risks and opportunities in the supply chain . It helps managers leverage the potential of our supplier network . The GP procurement process applies strict criteria for supplier selection and qualification . These include financial stability , quality and availability , together with overriding sustainability criteria , such as con - tractor safety , substance declarations and sustainability self-assessments . In June /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , GP added a cybersecurity ( CYS ) assessment process for all suppliers for which CYS is relevant . SGRE has introduced an upgraded ESG Risk & Performance Management Framework , advancing from risk-based assessments to risk- and impact- based assessments . This framework is composed of several complemen - tary steps designed to accelerate sustainability throughout our supply chain . Based on an initial supplier impact screening , it encourages suppli - ers to provide further details on how they are working with sustainability across their own operations and supply chains . While the framework aims to identify and reward high-performing suppli - ers , SGRE also helps suppliers who are not yet achieving the highest stan - dards but are eager to improve their performance . Accordingly , SGRE will incentivize “ best-in-class ” and “ best-in-progress ” suppliers as part of the supplier selection process . As part of Siemens Energy ’ s overall approach to decarbonize its operations throughout the entire value chain , we are actively encouraging our suppli - ers to also reduce their carbon emissions . For more information , see chap - ter  Decarbonization . Risk awareness Using our sustainability risk analysis system , we systematically identify potential risks in our supply chain every year . The cornerstones of this sys - tem are : • Identification of risks and categorization of commodities • Establishment of risk levels for individual countries ( determined using sustainability indicators for key areas such as compliance with laws , bribery and corruption , human rights in the workplace , child labor , etc . ) , making use of information supplied by internationally recognized organizations • Use of different strategic measures , for example , special preparation of projects with large , local procurement volumesTo further strengthen GP ’ s supplier sustainability risk management system , we initiated the calculation of social risk hours for our suppliers and their scope of supply . These are working hours in our supply chain that might be exposed to social risks , such as those in the areas of human rights or health and safety . This risk indication is not limited to country risks , but also includes commodity-specific risks . It additionally supports buyers through the prioritization and nomination of high-risk suppliers for conducting external sustainability audits.Cornerstones of our risk analysis systemCategorization of commoditiesRisk levels for individual countries Strategic measures Supplier awards At Siemens Energy , we celebrate our diverse small suppliers with an annual awards ceremony . This fiscal year , Siemens Energy honored four small businesses – three women-owned small businesses and one minority business – for their contribution to the success of Siemens Energy by being agile , innovative , responsive to Siemens Energy ’ s requests and delivering on time while offering competitive prices . Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /five.fitted/five.fittedSupplier assessment We use Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments ( CRSAs ) , covering all major aspects of the CoC , as part of the supplier qualification process that is regularly reviewed and updated as necessary to reflect new standards and regulations . New potential suppliers undergo a qualification process , while existing suppliers are reevaluated every three years . Siemens Energy screens suppliers regarding all aspects of the CoC . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , GP expanded the implementation of its CRSAs to include all suppliers¹ , not just those from high-risk countries . Compared with fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted , the number of CRSAs increased by /one.fitted/zero.fitted/six.fitted % to /three.fitted , /four.fitted/six.fitted/six.fitted conducted self-assessments . This can be mainly explained by GP ’ s expansion to all countries and for two reasons at SGRE – a high number of new CoC registrations that increased the number of self-assessments , as well as the rollout of the ESG Risk and Performance Management Framework . Furthermore , we conduct quality audits that include questions about sus - tainability that cover major aspects and requirements of the CoC . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , we conducted /nine.fitted/six.fitted/one.fitted on-site audits worldwide , compared to /four.fitted/two.fitted/four.fitted supplier quality audits in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted . This significant increase was due to SGRE ’ s integration of Senvion and Adwen and the qualification of a larger range of suppliers . We see external sustainability audits ( ESA ) as the most effective means of reviewing our suppliers ’ sustainability performance . Focusing on quality and objectivity , external audit partners conduct the ESAs . We assign repeat or follow-up audits if necessary . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , Siemens Energy con - ducted /one.fitted/six.fitted/seven.fitted ESAs . This number increased from /one.fitted/five.fitted/seven.fitted audits in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted , despite ongoing COVID-/one.fitted/nine.fitted restrictions . Furthermore , we accepted /seven.fitted/six.fitted ESAs of suppliers where audits have been initiated by other companies . We only accept audits that fulfill our requirements and where the full audit docu - mentation is provided to us . Throughout the supplier assessment processes , we remain committed to the partnership with our suppliers and to helping them improve . However , if problems persist and/or the suppliers do not show a willingness to take necessary corrective action , we remove them from our list of approved suppliers . All local instances of blocked suppliers are reported to Corporate Procurement , where the need for a worldwide block is discussed and decided . In /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , no supplier was dismissed , as all suppliers with negative results are collaborating and implementing corrective actions . In addition to the processes described above , we have a “ Central Warning Message ” system in place . This facilitates a fast , efficient response to viola - tions of the CoC requirements . The responsible Procurement departments at Siemens Energy are authorized to agree on a series of remedial steps with the supplier . Potential misconduct can be reported via the whis - tleblower hotlines “ Speak Up ” at GP and “ Integrity Hotline ” at SGRE . There were no cases reported in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . To inform Siemens Energy employees , suppliers and further external stakeholders , GP developed and published a web-based training in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted that explains GP 's approach to promoting sustainability in its supply chain.Reducing supplier emissions in China With reducing its supply chain emissions ( Scope /three.fitted ) in mind , the China Procurement team has developed a “ Decarb Toolbox ” for Siemens Energy suppliers . The toolbox aims to transfer knowledge and broaden the decarbonization capabilities of suppliers by communicating guid - ance and methodologies regarding decarbonization in their own oper - ations . The toolbox has been shared with /one.fitted/five.fitted/six.fitted suppliers based in China . The team is also working closely with three suppliers to identify CO2 reduction lighthouse projects . Following an initial questionnaire and on-site survey , Siemens Energy provided a comprehensive review of the supplier 's own operations emissions and both long-term and short-term improvement suggestions . The project aims to support our suppliers in their sustainability journey . ¹ To be conducted by all suppliers with a purchasing volume > €10,000 p. a . Procurement in Latin America promoting supplier sustainability A series of supplier sustainability awareness sessions held in May and June /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted aimed to inform around /two.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted suppliers across Latin America about Siemens Energy ’ s sustainability strategy and its goal to decarbonize the value chain . The sessions were coordi - nated by a cross-functional team from the Siemens Energy Latin American Hub and included further topics such as compliance risks , environmental protection and inclusion & diversity in the workforce . The Latin American Procurement team received responses from over /eight.fitted/zero.fitted % of their suppliers in the region . Finally , Siemens Energy Procurement in Brazil and Colombia have developed a robust EHS assessment program for service provid - ers to promote sustainability and manage EHS risks during pur - chasing . The program includes a supplier analysis to support transparency , accuracy and compliance with county laws . Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questionsFiscal year 2022 2021 Europe , C.I.S.1 , Africa , Middle East 615 227 Americas 148 98 Asia , Australia 198 99 Total 961 424 1 Commonwealth of Independent States.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /five.fitted/six.fittedExternal sustainability audits : 167Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments : 3,466Supplier quality audits by internal experts:961Supplier sustainability assessmentsFiscal year Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments ( CRSA ) 12022 2021 Number Europe , C.I.S.2 , Africa , Middle East 1,256 614 Americas 768 355 Asia , Australia 1,442 716 Total 3,466 1,685 Agreed upon improvement measures3 Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 305 233 Respect for the basic human rights of employees 154 145 Prohibition of child labor 7 – Health and safety of employees 282 77 Environmental protection 455 106 Supply chain 150 24 Responsible minerals sourcing 9 2 Total 1,362 587 1 GP : To be conducted by all suppliers with a purchasing volume > €10,000 p.a . ; SGRE : To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume > €50,000 p.a . Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review . 2 Commonwealth of Independent States . 3 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier . SGRE data reported from May 2022 onward . Number of CRSAs at SGRE amounted to 1,863.Fiscal year External sustainability audits ( ESA ) 2022 2021 Number Europe , C.I.S.1 , Africa , Middle East 61 48 Americas 16 24 Asia , Australia 90 85 Total 167 157 Agreed upon improvement measures2 Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 392 438 Respect for the basic human rights of employees 915 972 Prohibition of child labor 27 35 Health and safety of employees 895 985 Environmental protection 52 56 Supply chain 111 99 Total 2,392 2,585 Accepted ESAs 76 85 1 Commonwealth of Independent States . 2 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier . Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /five.fitted/seven.fittedResponsible minerals sourcing We are committed to preventing the use of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas in their supply chain that are affected by the risks defined in Annex /two.fitted of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas . To this end , we have a Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy ( formerly “ Conflict Minerals Policy ” ) in place to provide a uniform , company-wide supply chain management standard . To determine the use , sources and origin of these minerals in our supply chains , we investigate the smelters involved . Siemens Energy is part of the steering committee of the Respon - sible Minerals Initiative ( RMI ) , which provides an assessment program for smelters ( Responsible Minerals Assurance Process ) . When surveying our approximately /one.fitted , /six.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted ( fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted : /one.fitted , /eight.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted ) relevant suppliers , we use the RMI ’ s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template to obtain the necessary information on smelters producing tin , tantalum , tungsten , and gold ( /three.fittedTG ) . We are actively involved in the Responsible Minerals Assur - ance Process by screening smelters for eligibility and encouraging uncerti - fied smelters to take part in RMI ’ s assessment programs . All newly reported smelters are shared with RMI . Based on risk sources identified by the EU , which cover armed conflicts , weak governance and human right abuses , Siemens Energy also conducts a specific mineral risk assessment to identify other relevant minerals apart from /three.fittedTG . After cobalt , we added copper to our supply chain due diligence processes according to the /five.fitted-step framework of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance . In addition to our RMI membership and strategic partnership with the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals , we also became a member of the Copper Mark at the end of /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted . SGRE has revised its Rare Earth Due Diligence Program to allow for close sustainability monitoring throughout the whole permanent magnet supply chain . The program aims to foster supply chain transparency and monitor compliance with SGRE ’ s Code of Conduct . We are therefore closely collabo - rating with our direct suppliers to identify all relevant indirect suppliers throughout the lower tiers . Based on this transparency , we are conducting sustainability assessments to identify risks and improvement opportunities.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /six.fitted/one.fittedAnchoring our commitment Our commitment to respecting human rights is written into Siemens Energy ’ s BCG , with special emphasis on our company values : caring , agile , respectful and accountable . The BCG are binding for all executives and employees worldwide . All employees must agree to them and are given mandatory web- based training sessions on the guidelines ( see  Compliance training pro - gram ) . Due to its legal independence , SGRE has implemented its own BCG , which , in line with the group-wide approach and underpinned by a human rights policy , aim to define respect for human rights as an integral part of corporate respon - sibility . To enforce this commitment , employees are trained in the require - ments of the BCG , and the sales team must use evaluation and approval pro - cesses that take human rights into account . SGRE carries out compliance risk assessments ( CRAs ) , complemented by ongoing monitoring and reporting by SGRE ’ s Chief Compliance Officer . For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , D/two.fitted . Human Rights . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , GP further raised awareness of human rights in its busi - ness with a training video on the topic . Following a gap-analysis regarding the requirements of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act , our Exec - utive Board as well as the Sustainability Council were briefed on the next steps regarding the implementation of the law . We maintain regular exchange with networks such as econsense , a German sustainability network of internationally operating companies , particularly with a view to the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act . Respect for human rights in employee relations We are committed to human rights in our employee relations . For more information , see chapter  Working at Siemens Energy – Thriving environ - ment through inclusion and diversity , and for safe and healthy working con - ditions , see chapter  Occupational health and safety . Respect for human rights in the supply chain and in business partner relations Our business partners are required to comply with the Siemens Energy CoC for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries , which is based on the princi - ples of the UNGC and the ILO but contains more far-reaching requirements . The CoC particularly emphasizes respect for the basic human rights of employees , including fair remuneration , freedom of association , health and safety standards and prohibition of discrimination , forced labor and child labor . To support our suppliers , we continue to offer training on sustainability in the supply chain . According to our implemented sustainability risk management system , we systematically identify potential human rights risks in our supply chain and conduct supplier assessments . For more information , see chapter  Sus- tainable supply chain management . Human rights due diligence in customer projects We have a dedicated team that conducts human rights due diligence on customer projects . This is mandatory in the sales phase for projects that meet defined risk criteria , and the process conforms with the UNGPs . Here we rely on external ESG databases focusing on country- , customer- and project-related risks . The results of the due diligence guide the project ’ s decision-making process . We are continuously striving to improve our due diligence process . In /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted we analyzed the effectiveness of the criteria that trigger a mandatory human rights project due diligence . We thereby aim to capture projects with relevant risks for our business . Transparency and human rights-related query channels We are aware that some of our business activities take place in difficult business environments and are a controversial topic of discussion among our stakeholders . We regularly report on controversial topics via ratings and rankings , such as specific human rights aspects in critical projects . Any violations of human rights associated with our areas of influence can be reported via our grievance mechanisms , including communication chan - nels such as our “ Speak Up ” reporting system and ombudsperson . Please see the chapter  Compliance and integrity for more information . Siemens Energy is not aware of any confirmed human rights-related violations sub - mitted via these channels in the reporting period.Dimensions of human rights Human rights in the supply chain and in business partner relationsHuman rights in employee relations Human rights in customer projectsAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /six.fitted/two.fittedCompliance and integrity The compliance system is essential for a company-wide zero-tolerance approach Our zero-tolerance approach requires a holistic compliance system of mea - sures to ensure that business is always carried out in full accordance with the law as well as our internal rules . The Siemens Energy-wide compliance approach is based on the three levels of action “ prevent , detect , respond ” , centering around management ’ s responsibility and comprising focus areas • Our motto : /one.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted % Energy , /one.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted % Compliance • Strong ethical culture supported by awareness activities and ongoing communication • Zero-tolerance approach for compliance violations As we operate globally with customers from a wide range of industries in the private and public sectors , we are confronted with complex regulatory requirements coupled with increasing stakeholder expectations regarding integrity and risk management . In this context , we are committed to a strong culture of ethics and compliance . We pursue a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption , violations of the principles of fair competition and other breaches of the law . When such cases do occur , we take immediate action . We support international organizations that strengthen responsible busi - ness practices , including the United Nations Convention against Corrup - tion and the Anti-Bribery Convention of the OECD . Moreover , we con- tribute to the achievement of SDG /one.fitted/six.fitted “ Peace , Justice and Strong Institutions ” , which calls on companies to reduce bribery and corruption in all forms . This in turn promotes fair competition – which benefits innovation-driven companies like Siemens Energy . Anti-corruption measures combined with strong compliance systems protect companies as well as their employees and shareholders from the risk of possible misconduct . Countries also ben - efit from stopping corruption , as corruption impedes economic growth and hampers sustainable societal development . For Siemens Energy , compliance means more than adhering to laws and the internal regulations described in our BCG . Compliance is the basis for all our decisions and activities . Our premise is : /one.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted % Energy , /one.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted % Compli - ance . This applies worldwide and at all levels of the organization . Conse - quently , compliance is a top management priority . The Legal and Compli - ance department reports directly to our CEO , and our Group Compliance Officer reports regularly on GP and SGRE compliance matters to the Execu - tive and Supervisory Boards.Compliance is a company-wide effort , and it starts at the top . We strive to ensure all our actions are aligned with our values , at every level of the organization . Anti- corruption Anti-money launderingAnti- trust Collective actionData privacy Export controlHuman rightsCompliance focus areasAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /six.fitted/three.fittedsuch as anti-corruption , anti-money laundering , antitrust , collective-action ( GP only ) , data privacy , export control and human rights , which are also reflected in the BCG . For more information , see chapter  Human rights . SGRE has implemented its own compliance system and BCG that are in line with GP . For further information please refer to the  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , D/one.fitted . Ethics , Integrity and Anti-Corruption . Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy training program , whis - tleblower and reporting channels such as our “ Speak Up ” reporting system at GP , the GP ombudsperson , the “ Integrity Hotline ” at SGRE , our compli - ance risk management system and the respective BCG.The BCG for GP and SGRE set out our internal regulations . They express the values , compliance-related responsibilities and behavioral framework for all managers , employees and Executive Board members worldwide . Internal investigations , including regular and ad-hoc audits , are essential for detecting and clarifying misconduct . Misconduct is met with a clear response and immediate consequences . We continuously update our compliance system to mitigate challenges and risks arising from changing market conditions and our business activities . Holistic implementation of the compliance system Our compliance system combines strong central governance with the work of qualified compliance officers , who aim to ensure its worldwide imple - mentation . The entire management team is required to commit to compliance to ensure that all business decisions and activities conform to the relevant legal requirements and follow our own values and company policies . We expect the same commitment from all our employees and conduct reg - ular surveys on integrity to obtain feedback from them . For example , the global employee engagement survey that we conducted this year at GP includes compliance and integrity topics . Based on the feedback we received , we created a centralized legal and compliance team development approach . In online workshops , for example , employees as well as external partners can hereby present topics from all areas relevant for the function.Compliance training program Our global compliance training program requires all managers and employ - ees in positions with a specific risk profile to complete compliance train - ing . The compliance officers of each company unit identify which manag - ers and employees are required to participate and ensure they attend . We aim to maintain ongoing compliance awareness . In this reporting period , this included ad hoc training in the field of export control to ensure the correct handling of sanctions ( especially on Russia ) and specific aware - ness activities . Dedicated compliance and integrity topics are communi - cated group-wide through continuous messaging on company social media ( e.g. , Yammer ) and through integrity dialogues , which provide a forum for managers to discuss current compliance issues with their teams.Continuous improvementPreventRespond DetectManagement responsibilityOur compliance system : Management responsibility is the focusMiddle East Legal Awards – Compliance Innovator of the Year Siemens Energy took the award for Compliance Innovator of the Year at the /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Middle East Legal Awards . Held in Dubai in May , the award honored Siemens Energy ’ s work in conducting anti-corruption training with officials from the Ministry of Electricity in Iraq in June /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted ( see Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/one.fitted ) . The training was part of Siemens Energy ’ s Roadmap for the Electrification of the New Iraq , a series of projects launched to revamp the country ’ s ailing electricity sector and provide Iraqis with the reliable and efficient energy necessary for economic growth . Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /six.fitted/four.fittedCompliance risk management We believe reliable compliance risk analysis is key to the success of our business . By identifying risks early , we can make informed decisions on how best to avoid or mitigate them . We design and integrate bottom-up and top-down processes and tools to identify potential risk scenarios and take rapid and consistent action . In this context , the annual CRA was conducted for GP in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . At SGRE , the regular CRA is processed biennially and was also conducted in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . Identified risks were addressed through local and central measures and followed up on in dedicated workshops . CRAs are an integral part of the quarterly updated company-wide ERM that creates further transparency throughout the risk environment . Collaboration with business partners Under certain circumstances , Siemens Energy can be held legally responsi - ble for the actions of its business partners . We counter this risk by taking a comprehensive approach to selecting our partners , by contractually oblig - ing them to adhere to our CoC and by monitoring ongoing collaborations . The CoC is based on the Ten Principles of the UNGC and is mandatory for all Siemens Energy business partners . It covers legal compliance in general as well as our anti-corruption policies , including provisions against anti-competitive practices and conflicts of interest . Our process covers the entire life cycle of the business partnership . Our compulsory company- wide Business Partner Compliance Tool supports the implementation of the process and ensures the documentation of relevant information and activities . We are continuously enhancing our business partner due dili - gence process . We do this by systematically harnessing the potential of big data , using dashboards and analytics to improve risk management.Channels for reporting misconduct We offer all employees and external third parties confidential channels for reporting potential violations . In doing so , they help identify and eliminate misconduct , while protecting themselves and the company against any damage that may result . Such channels include : • Managers • Group Compliance Officer • Compliance department and Legal department • Human Resources department • Whistleblower hotlines : “ Speak Up ” at GP , “ Integrity Hotline ” at SGRE • Ombudsperson • Employee representatives Information on possible violations can be given confidentially and anony - mously . We do not tolerate retaliation against complainants or whistleblow - ers and will treat any cases thereof as a compliance violation . We apply the same principles to reports of wrongdoing brought forward by third parties . Our Compliance department investigates relevant reports based on pre- assessments and takes appropriate actions as per formal company-wide processes . Data privacy The protection of personal data plays an important role in our digitized world . We aim to handle it carefully and responsibly , respecting everyone ’ s privacy . Personal data is processed confidentially and only for legitimate , predetermined purposes.September 30 Compliance training¹ 2022 2021 Training on Business Conduct Guidelines Employees targeted that completed the module ( no . ) 67,248 60,519 Share of employees that completed the module ( % ) 94 83 Training on antitrust² Employees targeted that completed the module ( no . ) 44,951 43,304 Share of employees that completed the module ( % ) 95 95 Training on export control Employees targeted that completed the module ( no . ) 62,934 60,154 Share of employees that completed the module ( % ) 93 85 Training on data privacy³ Employees targeted that completed the module ( no . ) 64,637 – Share of employees that completed the module ( % ) 86 – 1 GP as well as SGRE address the same overarching topics but may vary in detailed content . Figures contain employees that were trained in the respective modules , incl . prior years . 2 Without SGRE . 3 Prior year ﬁgures are not reported.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /six.fitted/five.fittedWe are not aware of any substantiated complaints made in this reporting period relating to the protection of customer data . Key compliance indicators We respond to all allegations of possible violations of external and internal rules as per applicable formal company-wide processes and take appropri - ate disciplinary action in the event of proven violations . Once we complete a compliance investigation and identify compliance violations , our internal processes provide guidance to ensure we take appropriate action with the employees concerned . We evaluate and define consequences through dis - ciplinary processes at central or local level and systematically monitor implementation . The evidence demonstrates that our compliance system is well-designed and implemented effectively . Based on the nature of our businesses , the environments in which we work and the wide range of different geograph - ical regions , we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual . With respect to disciplinary sanctions , the year-over-year increase in overall number is mainly due to cases in SGRE India . Siemens Energy is not aware that it has been convicted of any corruption , bribery or antitrust violations during fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . Achievements Siemens Energy reached a number of milestones in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . These included : • Developing the compliance system further by adapting the due dili - gence processes • Enhancing compliance processes by further modernizing the GP compli - ance tool landscape • Implementing the Compliance Projects Marketplace at GP to gain new ideas and encourage internal cooperation • Continuing to develop the compliance training program and improving the onboarding process for new legal and compliance employees at GP • Celebrating an integrity week across Siemens Energy to raise compli - ance and integrity awareness at GP , and • Conducting extensive on-site training at SGRE India to raise awareness on compliance and integrity . In fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/three.fitted , GP will go live with the Governance , Risk and Compliance Tool that we initiated in /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted . GP will continue to explore the possibilities of digitalization for further efficiency and to strengthen the compliance moni - toring system . The cross-functional implementation of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act will also be a major task of fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/three.fitted for GP as well as for SGRE . In general , we will continue to tailor our compliance system to the individ - ual risks and opportunities of our business and the organizational struc - ture of Siemens Energy . ¹ Documentation of the purpose , risk and security safeguards for processing activities within the group.Policies and guidelinesResponse to data privacy incidentsKeeping records of data process - ing activities¹ Training and awareness measures for employeesRespecting data subject rightsTransfer safeguards within the Siemens Energy group of companiesData privacy management systemTo comply with data protection laws , including the General Data Protection Regulation , we have implemented the Siemens Energy data privacy manage - ment system , which aims to ensure the protection of our customers ’ , busi - ness partners ’ and employees ’ personal data . Although we predominantly operate in a B/two.fittedB environment where our customers are not end consumers , we nevertheless process business-related personal data , such as customers ’ and partners ’ employee data , ( e.g. , business contact information ) . Fiscal year Compliance indicators 2022 2021 Compliance cases reported 118 103 Disciplinary sanctions1188 49 thereof warnings 55 29 thereof dismissals 110 18 thereof other223 2 1 Numbers for disciplinary sanctions in a ﬁscal year do not necessarily correspond to cases reported during that period : sanctions are frequently not implemented in the same year in which the case was reported or the investigation – which follows a due process – was completed . In addition , a single case may result in multiple sanctions , or none at all . 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components , transfer and suspension , but not the revoca - tion of signatory rights.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /six.fitted/seven.fittedOur holistic I & D Framework in GP supports our ambition and contributes to the promotion of I & D . At GP , among others , the following measures were taken in fiscal year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , in addition to the measures established in past years , such as mandatory diverse interview panels to reduce bias in the hiring process : • The I & D Coalition of Allies at GP was established . It is chaired by the Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer and meets on a quarterly basis to develop action plans . • We launched a pilot Female Leadership @ Scale program to accelerate the development of future female leaders ( this is in addition to our Catalysta female development program ) . • Diversity KPIs are shown and measured across our key succession pipe - lines in a succession dashboard . • Facility upgrades of /four.fitted/zero.fitted offices initiated ( to be completed by the end of the calender year /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted ) to provide a barrier-free workplace for employ - ees and visitors . • In cooperation with our partner , Catalyst , one pilot MARC ( Men Advo - cating Real Change ) session was completed for our executive team in Europe to encourage male leaders to become better allies for women in the workplace . • An ombudsperson was appointed to investigate complaints made by employees who feel they have been mistreated or experienced discrimination.SGRE ’ s Diversity and Inclusion ( D & I ) strategy is set over a two-year period and cascaded across the business . Strategic objectives are backed by spe - cific action plans . Its efforts have been recognized by the Bloomberg Gen - der Equality Index for the third year in a row . Over the last year , progress was made in a number of areas : • The D & I Governance Board , chaired by the Global Head of D & I , was founded , and regional D & I councils were established . • A global program was initiated on preventing workplace harassment and discrimination that includes a formal complaint process and company- wide training . • New flexible working models ( including working from home part of the week ) and improved digital disconnection guidelines were established . • An inclusive leadership training was delivered for /five.fitted/five.fitted % of senior manag - ers and a high rate of participation in D & I courses in LinkedIn Learning achieved . • Equal opportunities plan implemented to increase the participation of women and other underrepresented groups . • Transparency was created on the gender pay gap by professional category and relevant locations . For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted , B/three.fitted . Diversity and Equal Opportunity . Strategic intentOur Inclusion & Diversity approach 01 Equal opportunity We are committed to fair and transparent practices for the attraction , promotion , development and retention of diverse people with different skills , abilities and ideas.02 Belonging We make our mix work by creating an inclusive culture where people feel respected , engaged , able to speak up and be themselves.03 Society & partnerships We work together , internally and externally , with customers and partners to support us in becoming more diverse and inclusive.Three focused strategy drivers serve as the foundation for a global and local program of actionAllyship at Siemens Energy Many people in society still experience discrimination due to their ethnic origin , gender , religion , disability , age , sexual orien - tation , gender identity and/or gender expression – and it is often in the workplace . At GP , we are determined for this change . To support employees at GP to feel safe to speak up honestly when mistreated , we have launched the Allyship cam - paign . It is a result of discussions from the diversity networks where some members came forward with stories of disrespect or racism . The campaign aims to change the internal culture and transform Siemens Energy into a truly inclusive and diverse company . It seeks to encourage kindness , respect , valuing differences and mutual support.Speaking up against discrimination in the workplace Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /eight.fitted/eight.fittedPrinciple System Measures Achievements Principle 1 Support of human rightsOur Siemens Energy Business Conduct Guidelines ( BCG ) provide the ethical and legal framework within which we conduct our business activities . They contain basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and externally , for example on human rights and labor standards . The BCG are binding for all executives and employees worldwide . The Siemens Energy-wide compliance approach is based on the three levels of action “ prevent , detect , respond ” , cen - tering around management ’ s responsibility and comprising focus areas such as anti-corruption , anti-money laundering , antitrust , data privacy , export control and human rights , which are also reﬂected in the BCG . Our actions go beyond compliance with applicable laws and regulations ; they include , among others , our commitment to the International Bill of Human Rights , European Convention on Human Rights , International Labour Orga - nization ( ILO ) , Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy , ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work ( in particular , on the following topics : elimination of child labor , abolition of forced labor , prohibition of discrimination , freedom of association , the right to collective bargaining , and fundamental freedoms ) , United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ( UNGPs ) and OECD Guide - lines for Multinational Enterprises . All of our suppliers and third-party intermediaries must sign our Code of Conduct ( CoC ) for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries , which requires that these basic rights and principles are also upheld in our supply chain . The CoC particularly emphasizes respect for the basic human rights of employees , including fair remuneration , freedom of association , health and safety stan - dards and prohibition of discrimination , forced labor and child labor.All employees must agree to the BCG and are given mandatory web-based training sessions on the guidelines . Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy training program , communi - cation channels such as our “ Speak Up ” reporting system at GP , the GP ombuds- person , the “ Integrity Hotline ” at SGRE , our compliance risk management system and the respective BCG . Internal investigations , including regular and ad-hoc audits , are essential for detecting and clarifying misconduct . Miscon - duct is met with a clear response and immediate consequences . Human rights due diligence is mandatory in the sales phase for projects that meet deﬁned risk criteria , and the process conforms with the UN Guiding Prin - ciples on Business and Human Rights ( UNGPs ) . The results are decisive for the project ’ s decision-making process . Using our sustainability risk analysis system , we systematically identify poten - tial risks in our supply chain , including bribery , corruption and human rights issues , among others . The cornerstones are the identiﬁcation of risks and cate - gorization of commodities , the establishment of risk levels for individual coun - tries and the use of different strategic measures . Following this risk-based anal - ysis , we have implemented Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments ( CRSAs ) for suppliers in identiﬁed high-risk countries , whereby they are screened with regard to all aspects of the CoC . Furthermore , we conduct quality audits includ - ing questions about sustainability that cover major aspects and requirements of the CoC . We see external sustainability audits ( ESAs ) as the most effective means of reviewing our suppliers ’ sustainability performance and therefore increased our target for this ﬁscal year.Siemens Energy has identiﬁed material human rights topics based on an inter - nal materiality analysis from the following perspectives : “ supply chain ” , “ work - place ” and “ customer projects ” . They reﬂect our value chain and have been sorted according to relevance for our business . Awareness of human rights issues was raised in the reporting period in the Siemens Energy Sustainability Council , for example , the Siemens Energy Exec - utive Board as well as the Supervisory Board were briefed on relevant topics , such as the implementation of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act . In ﬁscal year 2022 , 94 % of our employees were trained on the BCG . Around 75 % of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements worldwide . In the year under review , we conducted 3,466 CRSAs for suppliers . Compared to ﬁscal year 2021 , the number increased by 106 % . Furthermore , we con - ducted 961 quality audits with integrated sustainability questions . Compared to ﬁscal year 2021 , the number increased by 127 % . In addition , we conducted 167 ESAs , which is an increase of 6 % compared to ﬁscal year 2021 . When sur - veying our approximately 1,600 relevant suppliers , we use the RMI ’ s Conﬂict Minerals Reporting Template to obtain the necessary information on smelters producing tin , tantalum , tungsten and gold ( 3TG ) .  Sustainable supply chain management , pages 53-57  Human rights , pages 60-61Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights abuses Principle 3 Assurance of freedom of association Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced labor Principle 5 Abolition of child laborUN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Siemens Energy has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/zero.fitted and is committed to its Ten Principles . Index according to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Siemens Energy Sustainability Report /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/two.fitted Page /nine.fitted/two.fittedPrinciple System Measures Achievements Principle 10 Measures against corruptionWe pursue a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption , violations of the princi - ples of fair competition and other breaches of the law , which requires a holistic compliance system consisting of measures to ensure that business is always car - ried out in full accordance with the law as well as our internal rules . When such cases do occur , we take immediate action . Compliance is the basis for all our decisions and activities . The Siemens Energy- wide compliance approach is based on the three levels of action “ prevent , detect , respond ” , centering around management ’ s responsibility and comprising focus areas such as anti-corruption , anti-money laundering , antitrust , data privacy , export control and human rights , which are also reﬂected in the BCG . The BCG are binding for all employees worldwide . We support international organizations that strengthen responsible business practices , including the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of the OECD .  Compliance and integrity , pages 62-65The Siemens Energy compliance system combines strong central governance with the work of qualiﬁed compliance ofﬁcers , who aim to ensure its worldwide implementation . The entire management team is required to commit to compli - ance to ensure that all business decisions and activities conform to the relevant legal requirements and follow our own values and company policies . We expect the same commitment from all our employees and conduct regular surveys on integrity to obtain direct feedback from them . Siemens Energy continuously main - tains and develops its compliance system . Our global compliance training program requires all managers and employees in positions with a speciﬁc risk proﬁle to complete compliance training .  Compliance and integrity , pages 62-65On September 30 , 2022 , 94 % of our employees were trained on the BCG , 95 % on antitrust , 93 % on export control and 86 % on data privacy . Additionally , we developed the Compliance Awareness Campaign to strengthen inter - nal compliance communication and revised the compliance training program to adapt it to speciﬁc requirements . In this reporting period , this included ad hoc training in the ﬁeld of export control to ensure the correct handling of sanctions ( especially on Russia ) and speciﬁc awareness activities .  Compliance and integrity , pages 62-65The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex