Between the Management Board and the Supervisory BoardIn the last ﬁscal year , our Supervisory Board consisted of twelve members . We were on hand to support the Manage-ment Board in the various meetings held and also in its key decisions . We also kept a close eye on the company ’ s business development outside of meetings . The Manage-ment Board regularly informed us about key events and the company ’ s strategic direction as part of a collaboration based on trust.As Chairman of the Supervisory Board , I maintained regular and close dialogue with the Chairman of the Management Board in particular , but also with the other Management Board members , even outside of the Supervisory Board meetings . The employee representative bodies were in-volved in communications on key company matters via the Management Board . The Chairman of the Management Board informed me on company-related topics emerging from the Management Board ’ s discussions with representa-tives of the Group works council , going into an appropriate level of detail . Other members of the Supervisory Board were notiﬁed of any important ﬁndings promptly , or at the latest by the next board meeting . In the ﬁscal year , conﬂicts of interest involving Management Board or Supervisory Board members , which are to be reported immediately to the Supervisory Board , were reported once at the meeting of the Supervisory Board held on December /eight.osf ,  . The Supervisory Board member did not participate in this meeting of the Supervisory Board , but granted a voting proxy for the topics not aﬀected by the conﬂict of interest.Main RemitIn line with the duties assigned to the Supervisory Board by law , the Articles of Association and the rules of procedure , we once again closely scrutinized the Group ’ s operational , economic and strategic progress in the  ﬁscal year . The main issues covered included the development of overall conditions on the markets , changes in the capital market environment and their impact on portfolio and new invest-ments . We also discussed the topics of digitalization and portfolio strategy with the Management Board in detail.Once again , the topic of governance was a key issue for the Supervisory Board . At a further training event , we addressed the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive ( CSRD ) as the new framework for sustainability reporting within the EU . The regulatory requirements also require us to analyze our business activities and the corresponding implementa-tion . We will be providing close support in this matter . We will continue to focus on governance topics in further training events in the current ﬁscal year.We also took an in-depth look at the future structure of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board . As far as the Management Board is concerned , we discussed the man-agement structure , including possible succession arrange-ments . In zero.osfthree.osf , the Supervisory Board will be ( re ) appointing candidates for numerous Supervisory Board mandates . This was intensively discussed and prepared in detail by the Executive and Nominating Committee as part of strategic succession planning . To implement the “ Staggered Board ” , we have set up a nomination process with the involvement ThetabCompanytabandtabitstabShares —Report of the Supervisory Board 10of an independent HR consulting ﬁrm to ensure that succes-sion planning takes account of the Board ’ s skills proﬁle . Onboarding measures already in place ensure that new Board members are introduced to the company quickly and eﬀectively.The Supervisory Board and the committees again worked together eﬃciently in the past year . An eﬃciency review is planned for the end of the year , taking into account this year ’ s restructuring of the Board with the assistance of an experienced moderator.The Chairman of the Supervisory Board maintains dialogue with the relevant investors on governance issues as part of a regular governance roadshow , which was last held at the end of February zero.osfthree.osf . MeetingsIn the  ﬁscal year , the easing of the COVID-/one.osf/nine.osf pandemic meant that meetings could once again be held as face-to-face events or in hybrid format . The Supervisory Board met a total of seven times to consult and pass resolutions – once in a face-to-face meeting ( September ) and four times by means of video conference ( twice in March , and in October and December ) . Two meetings were held as hybrid events ( July and December ) . The Supervisory Board made deci-sions using the written procedure in three cases ( twice in January and in May ) .Any individual members absent from the seven meetings had always been excused and , especially in the case of the extraordinary committee meetings , were absent for work- related reasons . The absent members reviewed the meeting documents in detail and participated in the decisions met by issuing voting instructions to the Chairman of the Super-visory Board.The attendance rate for Supervisory Board and committee meetings averaged /nine.osfpercent.osf . No member of the Supervisory Board took part in less than half of the meetings during their term of oﬃce . The same applies to participation in commit-tee meetings . In preparation for the meetings , the Manage-ment Board submitted timely , comprehensive and valid written reports and resolution proposals to us.Information on the Individual Meetings and Their Content as well as Written ResolutionsAt the beginning of  , the ongoing pandemic meant that it appeared to make sense to hold the Annual General Meeting on April nine.osf ,  as a virtual event in order to protect everyone involved . On January /one.osf/eight.osf ,  , the Supervi-sory Board approved this decision by the Management Board using the written procedure.On January four.osf ,  , the Supervisory Board made a deci-sion , using the written procedure , to nominate Jürgen Fenk and Matthias Hünlein for election to the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting on April nine.osf , .On March /one.osf ,  , the Supervisory Board passed a resolution reappointing Rolf Buch as Chairman of the Management Board for a further ﬁve years with eﬀect from March /one.osf , zero.osfthree.osf . The extraordinary meeting was held as a video conference.On March /one.osf/seven.osf ,  , the Supervisory Board met to adopt the balance sheet . It approved the company ’ s annual and consolidated ﬁnancial statements as of December /three.osf/one.osf , / . The agenda and the resolution proposals for the Annual General Meeting were discussed and adopted . The Supervi-sory Board approved the proposal for the appropriation of proﬁt to be made to the Annual General Meeting as well as the proposal that the dividend be paid either in cash or in the form of shares . Furthermore , the Supervisory Board ap-proved the Non-ﬁnancial Declaration . It passed a resolution engaging KPMG to conduct the business audit of the Non- ﬁnancial Declaration for the  ﬁscal year , the ESG report as well as the  Sustainability Report . The Supervisory Board approved the proposed resolution to appoint KPMG as auditor for the annual ﬁnancial statements and consoli-dated ﬁnancial statements for the  ﬁscal year , as well as to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers as auditor of the interim ﬁnancial report for the ﬁrst quarter of the zero.osfthree.osf ﬁscal year . The Supervisory Board approved the remuneration report for the / ﬁscal year prepared by the Management Board and the Supervisory Board , and decided to publish it on the company ’ s website with the audit report issued by KPMG.The Supervisory Board approved the fundamental resolution of the Management Board on the partial use of authorized capital / in connection with the scrip dividend and transferred to the Finance Committee the powers required to take further steps . The update of the EMTN prospectus , involving an increase from /Euro.osf /three.osf/zero.osf billion to /Euro.osf /four.osf/zero.osf billion , and the issue of euro-denominated bonds with ESG elements ( Green , Social or Sustainable ) as part of the EMTN program in the amount of /Euro.osf /two.osf./zero.osf was also approved by Supervisory Board . The consultations also focused on the report submitted by the Management Board on the process involved in integrat-ing Deutsche Wohnen , and the reports by the Management Board members on the course of business in individual segments.Under the “ HR-related matters ” agenda item , the Super-visory Board discussed remuneration issues relating to the Management Board ( including target agreements , short-term and long-term incentive plans , the target achievement level under the / short-term incentive plan , payment of VonoviatabSE Annual Report 2022 19Corporate Governance In the corporate governance declaration ( also known as the Corporate Governance Report ) , we report on the principles of management and corporate governance for the last ﬁscal year in accordance with Sections eight.osf/nine.osff and /three.osf/one.osf/five.osfd of the German Commercial Code ( HGB ) and Principle three.osf of the German Corporate Governance Code ( GCGC , in the current version published on April eight.osf ,  ) .The declaration contains the Declaration of Conformity , information on corporate governance practices , a descrip-tion of how the Management Board and Supervisory Board work and key corporate governance structures . The declara-tion is also available to the public on our website . Pursuant to Section /three.osf/one.osf/seven.osf ( /two.osf ) ( /six.osf ) HGB , the disclosures pursuant to Sections eight.osf/nine.osff and /three.osf/one.osf/five.osfd HGB are not included in the audit performed by the auditor of the annual ﬁnancial statements.Fundamental InformationFundamental UnderstandingIn order for a company to be successful , its business model has to be accepted by all relevant stakeholder groups , from its customers through to civil society and the public , inves-tors or business partners . Managing with integrity , the sustainability of business models and the extent to which a company is perceived as living up to its social responsibili-ties are playing an increasingly important role . This applies no less to the real estate sector.Any misconduct by a company ’ s management also tends to result in the corporate governance regulations being tight-ened up , as was the case with the Financial Market Integrity Strengthening Act ( FISG ) . The government ’ s stated aim is to use the FISG to ensure that conﬁdence in the German ﬁnancial market is strengthened . This objective is to be achieved , among other things , by the statutory obligation to establish an appropriate and eﬀective internal control system ( ICS ) as well as a corresponding risk management system ( RMS ) for listed stock corporations and by mandating the establishment of an audit committee for public interest entities . The aim is also to strengthen the impartiality of the auditor , to tighten up the rules governing the auditor ’ s liability and to considerably expand the audit-ing powers granted to the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority ( BaFin ) .This is why , here at Vonovia , we see corporate governance as the responsible management and supervision of a com-pany . The Management Board and the Supervisory Board have made a comprehensive commitment to the principles of corporate governance as set out in the German Corporate Governance Code and in the Code of Conduct of the Insti-tute for Corporate Governance in the German Real Estate Industry.Standards of Corporate GovernanceThese principles are the basis for the sustainable success of the company and therefore serve as guidelines for conduct in the company ’ s daily management and business . Good corporate governance strengthens the trust of our share-holders , business associates , customers , employees and the general public in Vonovia SE . It increases the company ’ s transparency and strengthens the credibility of our group of undertakings . With balanced corporate governance , the Management Board and the Supervisory Board wish to safeguard Vonovia SE ’ s competitiveness , strengthen the trust of the capital market and the general public in the company and sustainably increase the company ’ s value . Corporate gover-nance , acting in accordance with the principles of responsi-ble management aimed at increasing the value of the business on a sustainable basis , is an essential requirement for the Vonovia Group , embracing all areas of the business.ThetabCompanytabandtabitstabShares —Supervisory Board | Corporate Governance 20As a major real estate company , we are aware of the partic-ular signiﬁcance of our entrepreneurial actions for society at large . As a result , we are committed not only to the general principles of corporate governance but also to all the main aims and principles of the Institute for Corporate Gover-nance in the German Real Estate Industry , which we have been a member of since November /one.osf/four.osf , zero.osf/zero.osf/three.osf . The institute supplements the corporate governance principles to include housing-speciﬁc aspects and is committed to even greater transparency , an improved image and a more competitive real estate sector.Our corporate culture is founded on transparent reporting and corporate communications , on corporate governance aimed at the interests of all stakeholders , on fair and open dealings between the Management Board , the Supervisory Board and employees as well as on compliance with the law.The Code of Conduct provides the ethical and legal frame-work within which we act and want to ensure our commer-cial success . The focus is on dealing fairly with each other but also in particular on dealing fairly with our customers , business partners and investors . The Code of Conduct speciﬁes how we assume our ethical and legal responsibility as a company and is the expression of our company values.Information on the Company ’ s Governing ConstitutionThe designation Vonovia comprises Vonovia SE and its Group companies . Vonovia is a European company ( SE ) in accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act ( AktG ) , the SE Act and the SE Regulation . Its registered headquar-ters are in Bochum . It has three governing bodies : the Annual General Meeting , the Supervisory Board and the Management Board . The duties and authority of those bodies derive from the SE Regulation ( SE-VO ) , the German Stock Corporation Act ( AktG ) and the Articles of Associa-tion . Shareholders , as the owners of the company , exercise their rights at the Annual General Meeting.According to the two-tier governance system , Vonovia SE has a Management Board and a Supervisory Board . In the two-tier governance system , the management of business and the monitoring of business are strictly separated from each other , meaning that individuals can not be members of both bodies at the same time . The duties and responsibilities of the bodies are clearly speciﬁed by law in the German Stock Corporation Act . In accordance with the governing laws , in particular the SE Regulation and the German SE Employee Participation Act ( SEBG ) , the Supervisory Board is only made up of representatives of the shareholders . The highest representative body of the employees is the Group works council . An SE works council was also set up at the level of Vonovia SE.The Management Board and Supervisory Board of a compa-ny listed in Germany are obliged by law ( Section /one.osf/six.osf/one.osf of the German Stock Corporation Act ) to report once a year on whether the oﬃcially published and relevant recommenda-tions issued by the government commission German Corpo-rate Governance Code , as valid at the date of the declara-tion , have been , and are being , complied with . Companies aﬀected are also required to state which of the recommen-dations of the Code have not been , or will not be , applied and , if not , why . The most recent Declaration of Conformity is valid for at least the next ﬁve years and the Declarations of Conformity that are no longer valid can be found on the company ’ s website . If the auditor ﬁnds the Declaration of Conformity to be incorrect , the Supervisory Board is in-formed and this is also noted in the audit report.The Management Board reports in its declaration , also on behalf of the Supervisory Board , on important aspects of corporate governance pursuant to Section eight.osf/nine.osff of the German Commercial Code ( HGB ) and Principle three.osf of the German Corporate Governance Code ( GCGC ) .Declaration of Conformity to the GCGC Pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act ( AktG ) On December /nine.osf ,  , the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Vonovia SE declared that , since the last Declaration of Compliance was issued on /one.osf December / , with the exception of G./one.osf/three.osf sentence /one.osf and sentence /two.osf , the company has complied with all the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Gover-nance Code as amended on zero.osf March zero.osfzero.osf , published by the German Federal Ministry of Justice in the oﬃcial section of the Federal Gazette , and will comply in future with all the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code as amended on seven.osf June  ( the “ Code ” ) , with the exception of G./one.osf/three.osf sentence /two.osf.According to G./one.osf/three.osf sentence /one.osf of the Code , any payments made to a Management Board member due to early termi-nation of their Management Board activity shall not exceed twice the annual remuneration ( severance cap ) and shall not constitute remuneration for more than the remaining term of the employment contract . All Management Board employ-ment contracts comply with the recommendation in G./one.osf/three.osf sentence /one.osf of the Code . However , when extending existing contracts and concluding future contracts , the Supervisory Board reserved the right to conclude contracts providing for a severance pay of up to /one.osf/five.osf/zero.osf/percent.osf of the severance cap upon a change of control ( as it had been recommended in Section /four.osf./two.osf./three.osf para . /five.osf of the zero.osf/one.osf/seven.osf Code ) , so that it can consider any grandfathering rights as well as any speciﬁc circumstances VonoviatabSE Annual Report 2022 21of individual cases . When concluding future Management Board employment contracts or extending existing ones , the Supervisory Board intends to limit severance payments upon a change of control to two annual remunerations.G./one.osf/three.osf sentence /two.osf of the Code speciﬁes that , if post-contractu-al non-compete clauses apply , the severance payments shall be taken into account in the calculation of any compensation payments . Even before the zero.osfzero.osf Code came into force , post-contractual non-compete clauses were partly agreed in a way that does not provide for such an oﬀset regulation . When extending existing contracts and concluding future contracts , the Supervisory Board continues to decide on a case-by-case basis whether to oﬀset severance payments against compensation payments ; this may be required in the interest of ﬂexibility and/slash.osfor due to grandfathering rights . We therefore declare that Vonovia SE will not comply with the recommendation in G./one.osf/three.osf sentence /two.osf of the  Code.Shareholders and Annual General MeetingShareholder Information : Shareholders can obtain full and timely information about our company on our website and can access current as well as historical company data . Among other information on its website , Vonovia regularly posts all ﬁnancial reports , important information on the company ’ s governing bodies ( including current resumes ) , its corporate governance documentation ( declaration of conformity and governance-related guidelines and voluntary commitments ) , information requiring ad hoc disclosure and press releases.Directors ’ Dealings : Information on directors ’ dealings/slash.osfmanagers ’ transactions notiﬁable pursuant to Article /one.osf/nine.osf of the Market Abuse Regulation is published by Vonovia without delay in accordance with the Regulation and is made available on the company ’ s website , with information also being provided on the shares held by each member of the company ’ s executive bodies.Financial Calendar : Shareholders and interested members of the ﬁnancial community can use the regularly updated ﬁnancial calendar on the website to obtain information on publication , conference and information dates , roadshows and the timing of the Annual General Meeting early on.Annual General Meeting and Voting : The Annual General Meeting decides in particular on the appropriation of proﬁt , the ratiﬁcation of the acts of the members of the Manage-ment Board and of the Supervisory Board , the appointment of the external auditor , amendments to the Articles of Association as well as speciﬁc capital measures and individ-ually elects the shareholders ’ representatives to the Supervi-sory Board.Our shareholders can exercise their voting rights at the meeting or instruct a proxy of their choice or one of the proxies provided for that purpose by the company . Our shareholders are also able to submit a postal vote . The details regarding the postal voting procedure are in the respective shareholder ’ s invitation to the Annual General Meeting.The entire documentation for the Annual General Meeting and opportunities to authorize , and issue instructions to , the company ’ s proxies as well as to submit a postal vote are available to shareholders at all times on the Vonovia website . Due to the coronavirus pandemic , the  Annual General Meeting was held as a virtual event , as was the case in / . Vonovia believes that this concept has proven to be very successful . In the spirit of digitalization and sustainability , the legislator also considers this Annual General Meeting format to have future potential , as is evidenced by the amendment to the German Stock Corporation Act.Remuneration Paid to Executive Bodies : In line with the German Stock Corporation Act and the GCGC , the Supervi-sory Board presented the remuneration system it had adopted for the Management Board members to the / Annual General Meeting for approval , which was granted with /eight.osf/seven.osf./seven.osf/five.osf/percent.osf of the votes cast.The Management Board also presented the remuneration report required under the Act Implementing the Second Shareholders ’ Rights Directive ( ARUG II ) at the  Annual General Meeting for the ﬁrst time . The remuneration report for the / ﬁscal year , which was audited by the auditor , was approved by /eight.osf/four.osf./four.osf/percent.osf of the votes cast before being published on Vonovia SE ’ s website . The remuneration system of the Supervisory Board of Vonovia SE is governed by the Articles of Association . It was conﬁrmed by a /nine.osf/nine.osf./three.osf/four.osf/percent.osf majority by the / Annual General Meeting in accordance with ARUG II . The Annual General Meeting held in the reporting year approved an amendment to the Articles of Association to adjust the remuneration , which had remained unchanged since zero.osf/one.osf/three.osf.The Supervisory BoardDuties and ResponsibilitiesThe Supervisory Board appoints , supervises and advises the Management Board and is directly involved in decisions of fundamental importance to the company . The Supervisory Board performs its work in accordance with the legal provi-sions , the Articles of Association , its rules of procedure and its resolutions . It consists of twelve members , ten of whom were elected for four ﬁscal years by the zero.osf/one.osf/eight.osf Annual General ThetabCompanytabandtabitstabShares —Corporate Governance 22Meeting and two of whom were elected for three years by the  Annual General Meeting . The Supervisory Board examines and adopts the annual ﬁnancial statements and the combined management report , which also includes the Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration . It assesses and conﬁrms the proposal for the appropriation of proﬁt as well as the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and the combined management report on the basis of the report prepared by the Audit Committee . The Supervisory Board reports in writing to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the result of its examination.The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is an independent member . The same applies to the chairs of the committees which the Supervisory Board has set up.The Chairman of the Supervisory Board chairs the meetings and coordinates communications . The members of the Supervisory Board generally have the same rights and obligations . Supervisory Board resolutions are above all passed in the Supervisory Board meetings but also , if neces-sary , using the written procedure or by other communication means . At least two meetings are held every six months . In addition , if necessary and on the basis of the rules of proce-dure of the Supervisory Board , a meeting of the Supervisory Board or its committees can be convened at any time at the request of a member or the Management Board.The Supervisory Board is composed in such a way that its members as a group have the knowledge , ability and special-ist experience , also in those sustainability matters that are signiﬁcant to the company , required to properly complete its tasks . All of them are familiar with the real estate sector as the segment in which the company operates . At least one member of the Supervisory Board has expertise in the ﬁeld of accounting and another member has expertise in the ﬁeld of auditing.Each Supervisory Board member shall ensure that they have enough time to carry out their mandate.At the time at which this declaration was prepared , no Supervisory Board members exercised directorships or advisory tasks for important competitors of the company ( see Avoidance of Conﬂicts of Interest ) .Since zero.osfzero.osf , a standard process for related party transactions has been ﬁrmly established within the company . This includes reporting on a regular basis to the Annual General Meeting as part of the Supervisory Board report . The Super-visory Board receives information twice a year in the compli-ance report on the recording of related party transactions in accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act . Mem-bers of the Supervisory Board , for their part , immediately report any transactions that they or parties related to them conclude with the company . The relevant data is also collected at the end of the ﬁscal year . The Supervisory Board reserves the right to make a decision itself on any transac-tion requiring approval or to delegate the decision to one of its committees in line with the statutory requirements . No such transactions were recorded in the reporting period.Supervisory Board Self-AssessmentThe Supervisory Board performs regular eﬃciency reviews that are performed , in alternation , as self-evaluations using a written survey conducted among the members and with the involvement of an independent and experienced moderator in the form of personal interviews . The most recent regular evaluation , supported by a moderator and conducted in the fourth quarter of zero.osf/one.osf/nine.osf , revealed that the Supervisory Board performs its work eﬃciently ( see Report of the Supervisory Board ) .Supervisory Board CommitteesThe Supervisory Board sets up an Executive and Nomination Committee , an Audit Committee and a Finance Committee from among its members . Further committees are formed as required . Committees are made up of at least four members of the Supervisory Board ( see Report of the Supervisory Board ) . The committees prepare subjects which are to be discussed and/slash.osfor resolved by the Supervisory Board . In addition , they pass resolutions on behalf of the entire Supervisory Board . The basis for committee work was the transfer of tasks and responsibilities within the scope of the legal provisions.The Executive and Nomination Committee is made up of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and at least three other members to be elected by the Supervisory Board . The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is the Chairman of the Executive and Nomination Committee . The tasks of this committee are , in particular , to prepare the appointment of Management Board members and propose candidates for election as Supervisory Board members , to advise on the remuneration system , to assign responsibilities and to decide in cases of legal and loan transactions with members of the Management Board and conﬂicts of interest.The Supervisory Board appoints one of the members of the Audit Committee as the Chairman of the Audit Committee . When electing the committee members , the Supervisory Board shall ensure that the Chairman of the Audit Commit-tee has specialist knowledge and experience in the applica-tion of accounting principles and internal control and risk management systems and/slash.osfor in audits . The Committee Chairman should be independent and not be a former member of the company ’ s Management Board whose appointment ended less than two years before their appoint-ment as Chairman of the Audit Committee . The Supervisory Board Chairman should not be the Chairman of the Audit VonoviatabSE Annual Report 2022 23Committee . As a result of the FISG provisions , one commit-tee member must have experience in accounting and the other in auditing . With Prof. Dr. Edgar Ernst as the long-standing President of the German Financial Reporting Enforcement Panel and Dr. Florian Funck as the Chief Finan-cial Oﬃcer of Haniel & Cie GmbH responsible , among other things , for accounting , the Audit Committee is composed of experts in the areas of auditing and accounting ( see table Supervisory Board Qualiﬁcations Proﬁle ) . The Audit Committee handles , in particular , the monitoring of the accounting process , the eﬀectiveness of the internal control system , risk management system and internal audit system , the audit of the annual ﬁnancial statements and – unless another com-mittee is entrusted therewith – compliance . Accounting and auditing also include the sustainability report and the auditing of this report . Each member of the Audit Commit-tee can obtain information directly from the heads of those central departments that are relevant to the Audit Commit-tee via the Committee ’ s Chairman.The Audit Committee prepares the resolutions of the Supervisory Board on the annual ﬁnancial statements ( and , if applicable , the consolidated ﬁnancial statements ) , and , in place of the Supervisory Board , reaches the agreements with the auditor ( in particular the issuing of the audit mandate to the auditor , the determination of strategic audit objectives and the fee agreement ) . The Audit Committee takes suitable action to assess and monitor the independence of the auditor and the audit quality and is responsible for discuss-ing the assessment of the audit risk , audit strategy , planning and results with the auditor . The Audit Committee also makes decisions on behalf of the Supervisory Board on the approval of contracts with auditors for non-assurance services.The Finance Committee consists of the Supervisory Board Chairman or the latter ’ s Deputy Chairman and at least three other members .  On the part of the Supervisory Board , the Audit Committee , in particular , performs the corresponding control function . Central coordination of sustainability activities is the respon-sibility of the Sustainability/slash.osfStrategy department . This department reports directly to the Chief Executive Oﬃcer . Its core duties include , in particular , the further development of the sustainability strategy , the deﬁnition and monitoring of sustainability targets , the providing of impetus and the implementation of sustainability projects . It also handles sustainability reporting , which includes not only sustainabili-ty reporting within the annual report , but also the prepara-tion of the sustainability report and the management of numerous ESG ratings.A sustainability committee meets three to four times a year– as required – to discuss the overall strategic direction CombinedtabManagementtabReport —Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration 54Assessing Significant Harm of an Economic Activity on One or Several EU Environmental Objectives ( “ Do No Signifi-cant Harm ” ) In the following , we explain which “ do no signiﬁcant harm ” criteria apply to our economic activities that have been identiﬁed as taxonomy-eligible and how we meet these criteria . Generally the criteria are EU regulations or direc-tives that have been transposed into national law in Germa-ny , Austria and Sweden.In order to avoid signiﬁcantly compromising adaptation to the eﬀects of climate change ( EU environmental objective /two.osf ) , the EU taxonomy requires that a robust climate risk and vulnerability assessment be carried out for all taxonomy- aligned economic activities . Vonovia uses an IT tool to identify and evaluate physical climate risks for the Group-wide portfolio on a continuous basis using the prescribed climate scenarios ( RCP/two.osf./six.osf , RCP/four.osf./five.osf and RCP/eight.osf./five.osf ) ( see Envi-ronmental issues ) . The risk assessment is based on scenario RCP/four.osf./five.osf , which , according to the United Nations ( UNEP Emissions Gap Report  ) , represents the probable increase in the global average temperature that will result from the national contributions to climate change mitigation that have currently been deﬁned and implemented . In this scenario , no material risk has been identiﬁed for any of the climate-related hazards up to zero.osf/four.osf/five.osf . Therefore , no adaptation plan is required in accordance with the EU Taxonomy Regulation . As part of the neighborhood strategy , potential adaptations are to be deﬁned at portfolio level in the future and subsequently implemented individually for the proper-ties or neighborhoods for which there are material risks at the corresponding level.With regard to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources ( EU environmental objective /three.osf ) , no criteria need to be assessed for the taxonomy-eligible economic activities , as these do not apply to residential building units . At Vonovia , the review of taxonomy align-ment is limited to residential building units.The requirements for the recycling and reuse of non- hazardous construction and demolition waste generated by new construction and renovation work for transitioning to a circular economy ( EU environmental objective /four.osf ) are met through the implementation of the German Circular Economy Act ( KrWG ) or by means of other national legislation . The photovoltaic systems installed by Vonovia also meet the requirements for preventing signiﬁcant harm to EU environ-mental objective /four.osf on account of their design and service life.In order to avoid and prevent environmental pollution ( EU environmental objective /five.osf ) , compliance with certain EU directives must be ensured ( listed in Appendix C to Annex /one.osf to the Supplement to EU Regulation zero.osfzero.osf/slash.osf/eight.osf/five.osf/two.osf ) . This is regulated by law in Germany , Austria and Sweden . Vonovia only purchases and uses ﬁnished construction products that are approved within the EU , bear the CE mark , meaning that they have an EU declaration of conformity , which is consis-tent with the applicable EU legislation . Compliance with statutory requirements is deﬁned in Vonovia ’ s Business Partner Code that all subcontractors and suppliers have to sign . Vonovia has established a toxic materials management system to ensure the safe handling of toxic materials . Among other measures , safety fact sheets and operating instructions are kept for aﬀected products and the compa-ny ’ s own employees are trained on how to handle these products correctly from an occupational safety perspective . Given the shortage of housing , new construction is crucially important for society . The same applies to energy-eﬃcient building refurbishment , as well as to the installation , mainte-nance and repair of energy-eﬃcient systems . These mea-sures to decarbonize the real estate portfolio and to continu-ally improve energy eﬃciency help , for example , to save heating costs , taking pressure oﬀ tenants and at the same time improving the quality of housing and life for society.Vonovia ’ s economic activities do not signiﬁcantly harm the achievement of EU environmental objective /six.osf ( protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems ) , as Vonovia only builds in designated areas . Relevant aspects are taken into account by the competent authorities in the approval procedures preceding such activities.Compliance with Minimum Standards at Group Level ( “ Minimum Social Safeguards ” ) We are committed to our human rights due diligence obligations and align our conduct with internationally recognized frameworks such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.Vonovia adopts a Group-wide approach to meeting mini-mum safeguards : comprehensive procedures forming part of the compliance management system , including Group-wide guidelines and complaints mechanisms , have been put in place to prevent and uncover violations ( see Combating Corruption and Bribery ) . VonoviatabSE Annual Report 2022 64Reporting on Aspects of the Non-ﬁnancial Group DeclarationThe Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration sets out the relevant concepts , the accompanying due diligence processes , the results of the concept and the status of implementation of the measures for each material topic.Vonovia has prepared Group guidelines for describing the concepts and their implementation , which Deutsche Wohnen has adopted in the course of its integration . As such , the Group ’ s regulations , concepts and processes are thus also adapted to the new business activities . Unless stated otherwise , the concepts presented for the  reporting year still apply to the Vonovia Group exclud-ing Deutsche Wohnen.Nine out of the ten topics that are material for Vonovia can be allocated to the aspects covered by the German Com-mercial Code ( HGB ) in the context of the Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration : /greater.osfEnvironmental issues : reducing CO/two.inf in real estate portfo-lio/slash.osfsustainable new construction and refurbishment /greater.osfSocial issues : Neighborhood development and contribu-tion to infrastructure/slash.osffairly priced housing/slash.osfhomes that meet people ’ s needs and demographic change/slash.osfcustomer satisfaction and service quality /greater.osfEmployee issues : Appeal as an employer/slash.osfdiversity and equal opportunities /greater.osfCombating corruption and bribery : Governance and compliance “ Appeal on the capital market ” has been identiﬁed as an additional material topic for Vonovia . Information on the “ Respect for human rights ” aspect , which is a requirement under the German Commercial Code ( HGB ) , is also reported in the Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration . Environmental IssuesEnvironmental issues include the following material topics for Vonovia : “ Reducing CO/two.inf in the real estate portfolio ” and “ Sustainable new construction and refurbishment ” ( see Materiality Matrix ) .The mitigation of global warming and the protection of natural resources for life on earth are some of the most important challenges facing society as a whole in our time . As such , environmental and climate protection is accorded paramount importance within our sustainability strategy . Targets set at international level , such as the Paris Agree-ment and the European Union Green Deal , as well as those set at national level , such as the goal set by the German Federal Government to achieve climate neutrality by zero.osf/four.osf/five.osf , are of high signiﬁcance for Vonovia in this regard.As Europe ’ s housing industry market leader with our own real estate portfolio of /five.osf/four.osf/eight.osf , /five.osffour.osf residential units and our development activities , we possess signiﬁcant levers for protecting the environmental and climate . Here , our main concern is greenhouse gas emissions that can be largely inﬂuenced directly , known as scope /one.osf & /two.osf emissions . These are produced by supplying heat and hot water to our build-ings , with the majority of our housing stock being located in Germany . Greenhouse gas emissions from the upstream value chain and other environmental aspects are also becoming increasingly important to us.Vonovia has set itself the target of achieving a virtually climate-neutral housing stock by zero.osf/four.osf/five.osf , with carbon intensity of less than /five.osf kg of CO/two.inf equivalents per sqm of rental area . By zero.osf/three.osf/zero.osf , our housing stock in Germany is to have a CO/two.inf intensity of less than five.osf kg CO/two.infe/slash.osfsqm . These targets remain unchanged following the merger with Deutsche Wohnen and were conﬁrmed in  . Binding interim targets for the next ﬁve years have also been deﬁned.During the reporting year , we had the Vonovia climate pathway ’ s compatibility with the Paris Agreement target calculated using the XDC model from right.based on sci-ence . The XDC model converts CO/two.inf emissions based on our climate pathway into a number of degrees that shows by how much the earth ’ s temperature would increase if the entire world 's climate performance were identical to that of Vonovia . This calculation reveals that , taking into account sales that are already planned , Vonovia ’ s climate pathway is compatible with global warming of /one.osf./four.osf° Celsius . The /one.osf./five.osf° target path of the Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor ( CRREM ) for multifamily homes in Germany ( as at /zero.osf/seven.osf/slash.osf/ ) was used as a benchmark.Deﬁning and implementing the climate pathway is part of our systematic way of tackling climate change – with regard to both Vonovia 's contribution to mitigating climate change and the eﬀects of climate change on our company ’ s eco-nomic development . Our climate pathway combines grand ambitions for CO/two.inf reduction with the economic eﬃciency required to implement them . In continuing to develop this path further , we maintain an overview of the risks , e.g. , those resulting from future increases in prices for causing CO/two.inf emissions or the impact of climate change on our buildings , as well as the opportunities , e.g , in the form of climate- resilient and particularly competitive neighborhoods . The recommendations made by the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures ( TCFD ) constitute important guidance in this regard . VonoviatabSE Annual Report 2022 79Austria , we were not only awarded the equalitA certiﬁcation for the internal promotion of women in / . BUWOG has also held state certiﬁcation as a family-friendly company since zero.osf/one.osf/seven.osf , being most recently recertiﬁed in zero.osfzero.osf.Material Performance Indicator – SPICategoryUnit/one.tabTargettabfortab/three.tabProportiontaboftabwomentabintabmanagementtabpositionstab ( ﬁrsttabandtabsecondtablevelstabbelowtabthetabManagementtabBoard ) * % /eight.tab/period.tab * * /five.tab/period.tab/one.tab/eight.tab/period.tab/six.tab * Excluding Care segment and SYNVIA . * * Excluding Deutsche Wohnen.At the top level of management , the diversity concept for the composition of the management and control bodies is set out in detail in the corporate governance declaration.Establishment in the CompanyAt Vonovia , the CEO is responsible for HR work , which is established centrally as a shared service within the HR department . In / , the shared service approach was transformed into an HR business partner model that contin-ues to be developed on an ongoing basis . From January /one.osf , zero.osfthree.osf , this will also include the Deutsche Wohnen subgroup.Austria and Sweden have their own HR departments . Austria reports to the HR department in Germany via dotted-line reporting , whereas Sweden is still not ﬁrmly established in the reporting line . Here , monitoring and reporting takes place as and when required . The Head of HR discusses developments with the CEO on a regular basis . The objectives and focus of HR work are developed in collaboration with the Management Board and are then cascaded down throughout the organization . With the exception of the SYNVIA group and the companies in the Nursing and Assisted Living business area , the organization-al integration of Deutsche Wohnen was completed by January /one.osf , zero.osfthree.osf ( see Nursing and Assisted Living ) .Combating Corruption and BriberyWithin the context of the statutory requirements in the Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration , this aspect includes one material topic : “ Governance and Compliance ” ( see Materiality Matrix ) .Governance and ComplianceThe foundation of our business model is based on reliable , transparent and trustworthy corporate governance , which the company manages and monitors responsibly and independently . Its function as a role model is decisive in terms of building and cementing credibility – and therefore trust among our stakeholders . This also applies with respect to legally compliant conduct . Trust can be built through reliability if all rules are followed systematically – both those set out by law and , in particular , also those that we impose on ourselves . By contrast , any abuse of trust can damage the reputation and the business success of the company . As a result , our governance endeavors are geared toward the establishment and implementation of , and systematic compliance with , a transparent and modern system of rules . Group-wide guidelines and business principles act as a frame-work in this regard : Our business philosophy , our Code of Conduct , the Business Partner Code , and our Management Board ’ s Declaration of Respect for Human Rights act as the maxims guiding us in our actions . We live up to this attitude with our independent supervisory board and our commitment to the principles of the German Corporate Governance Code.The compliance management system ( CMS ) supports the corporate governance ’ s direction and guards the company against misconduct . At Vonovia , the CMS is based on three pillars : prevention , detection and response . These pillars are underpinned by an extensive system of measures and processes as part of the compliance program . The basis takes the form of the Compliance Guidelines , which follow the Principles for the Proper Performance of Reasonable Assurance Engagements Relating to Compliance Manage-ment Systems ( IDW PS  . The CMS is subject to a periodic audit , which is carried out by an external auditor.The Group-wide ( excluding Deutsche Wohnen ) , Web-based compliance risk analysis that was conducted at manage-ment level in the / ﬁscal year had identiﬁed potential for improvement in the areas of money laundering prevention and IT security , while performance in the other areas were considered good to very good . One measure resulting from this was the restructuring of the data protection department , which was merged with the central compliance department on January /one.osf ,  . This serves to simplify internal processes , thus making them easier to safeguard.Regular training sessions are the cornerstone for preventing misconduct before it happens . A comprehensive catalog of regular and mandatory training events is already ﬁrmly CombinedtabManagementtabReport —Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration 80established and has been adapted for the various internal target groups . The procurement department , for which the issue is particularly relevant , receives special training on corruption and criminal law pertaining to corruption , for example . After focusing on the digitalization of training formats in / , such as mandatory training on the Code of Conduct and data protection , we were able to add ﬁve new formats to the compliance training we oﬀer in the reporting year : Mandatory training on dealing with conﬂicts of interest and combating corruption is aimed at all employees and is repeated every year . The target group-speciﬁc training sessions are also run every year . We are acting on the recommendations made based on the compliance risk analysis by oﬀering a new training format for the sales department on the topic of money laundering prevention . New additions to the program also include training on corruption and detecting fraud , which is aimed at all levels of management , and training on concluding contracts for the development department.The complaints management and whistleblower protection system , expanded in / , has been in regular operation since that time . Bolstered by Group guidelines on preventing and tackling corruption , on preventing money laundering , on the whistleblower system and on compliance , the anony-mous whistleblower hotline is not only available to employees , but also to external parties such as customers and business partners , in both German and English . Up to six additional languages are to be added in zero.osfthree.osf in order to minimize language barriers . The hotline complements and extends the existing system of the independent ombudsman . It is also integrated within the partner portal for business partners . The whistleblower report , prepared externally every six months , is included with the company ’ s compliance report . The various elements of our whistleblowing system mean that we consider ourselves well prepared for the implemen-tation of the Whistleblower Protection Act ( Hinweisgeber-schutzgesetz ) , which is due to come into force in Germany in zero.osfthree.osf.Information on potential cases of discrimination can also be submitted anonymously via the whistleblowing system . An additional reporting mailbox has also been set up in the HR department to identify potential violations of the General Act on Equal Treatment ( Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungs-gesetz ) . In Germany , this covers four European anti- discrimination directives that have been issued since zero.osf/zero.osf/zero.osf.The Chief Executive Oﬃcer ( CEO ) is responsible for imple-mentation of the CMS . A Compliance Committee compris-ing the Compliance Oﬃcer ( Legal department ) , Compliance Managers , the ombudsperson , representatives of the Internal Audit , Risk Management and HR departments , members of the works council and representatives of the companies outside Germany ( with Austria joining in / and Sweden in  ) regularly updates the system in line with current requirements and is responsible for its ongoing development . In this context , the Compliance Oﬃcer acts as a central contact point within the company for compliance- related questions and suspicions . The Compliance Oﬃcer reports to the CEO on a regular basis , and also on an ad hoc basis when special cases arise . The Compliance Oﬃcer ’ s activities are supported by the compliance managers and specialists in the individual departments . The CMS and whistleblowing system apply to the entire Group . Deutsche Wohnen also maintains its own legal and compliance department , which is supported by Vonovia ’ s compliance and data protection department under the terms of the agency agreements . Whenever legislation in Austria or Sweden conﬂicts with Group-wide rules , a diﬀerent rule is adopted for the subgroup in the form of a national guideline . Responsibility for this lies with the respective managing directors.The Supervisory Board regularly receives comprehensive information about compliance issues and corruption along with existing guidelines and processes . The compliance report , which is forwarded to the Audit Committee via the Compliance Oﬃcer ( following prior consultation with the CEO ) , provides information about potential breaches , measures and training relating to corruption , as well as relevant data protection issues.Material Performance IndicatorCategoryUnit/ number/zero.tab * * Exclusive segment care.In the  ﬁscal year , there were individual suspected cases of corruption , which we investigated diligently . None of the cases were conﬁrmed . Furthermore , several other compli-ance violations or suspected cases were reported , although these can be described as minor in total . VonoviatabSE Annual Report 2022 81On March /seven.osf , zero.osfthree.osf , Vonovia SE received information from the public prosecutor 's oﬃce in Bochum regarding investi-gations against current and former employees on the basis of a search warrant issued by the Local Court of Bochum . According to the information provided , Vonovia SE or selected aﬃliated companies are suspected of having suﬀered damage due to fraud , breaches of trust , anticom-petitive agreements in connection with tenders and partic-ularly serious cases of passive and active corruption in business transactions . The extent to which the actual damage may have also resulted in damage incurred by tenants has not yet been clariﬁed with deﬁnitive eﬀect . Measures have been taken to clarify the incidents in full . The auditing ﬁrm Deloitte has also been engaged to conduct an independent investigation . In this regard , we refer to the explanatory information in the combined management report concerning the Disclosures on the “ appropriateness and eﬀectiveness of the ICS “ and subsequent events . Given that only fully completed proceedings are presented under key performance indicator “ Total number of conﬁrmed cases of corruption ( in Germany ) ” in the reporting year in question , this incident has no impact on the key ﬁgures reported for / and .Respect for Human RightsThe European legal framework in which Vonovia operates with its business model is strictly regulated and overseen in the markets in Germany , Austria and Sweden . This applies in particular to fundamentally enshrined human rights , to which Vonovia attaches great importance irrespective of the legal framework . Compliance with , and the fostering of , these rights is reﬂected in our ethos and mission statement . We regularly scrutinize our guidelines and adapt them to reﬂect changing underlying conditions . Due to the Supply Chain Due Diligence Act and the announced European regulation , the way in which supply chains are structured and the due diligence obligations associated with this are of increasing importance to the company.In our Declaration of Respect for Human Rights , we communicate our clear conviction for a pluralistic democratic society and zero tolerance of human rights violations and our commit-ment to respect human rights in all aspects of our business . We adhere to the core labor standards of the International Labour Organization ( ILO ) , the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights , and the principles of the UN Global Compact , which we committed to in zero.osfzero.osf.Vonovia ’ s business model includes the construction , mainte-nance and modernization of homes . From a human rights perspective , compliance with labor and social standards on construction sites in the course of these activities is of particular relevance . Some trade/slash.osfconstruction activities in Germany are carried out by the company ’ s own technical service – and therefore by its own employees . This lessens both dependency on the services of external construction companies and – thanks to the measures established in the company ’ s own business area – the risk of noncompliance with labor and social standards . Concrete cooperation with external partners and contractors is governed by Vonovia through its Business Partner Code , the general terms and conditions of purchasing , the general terms and conditions of Vonovia SE for building services , and individual contractual agreements within the scope of structured supplier management . The Business Partner Code must be signed prior to the conclusion of a contract . In this document , we set out , among other things , all material requirements necessary for compliance with human rights – from legal conformity and the fulﬁllment of legal standards for working conditions to an assurance of freedom of associ-ation and the exclusion of child labor , forced labor and dis-crimination . It is updated regularly – with the next update scheduled for zero.osfthree.osf – and applies to contractual relations in Germany and Austria . A corresponding separate Code is in place in Sweden.As part of the regular evaluation of our major suppliers and contractors via our partner portal , we strive to ensure that the criteria stated in the Code are complied with . In the event of incidents and breaches , a structured management of measures is activated , which – once all other means have been exhausted – may result in blocks on orders and termi-nation of contract . In Germany , contractual conclusion is preceded by an automatic check against EU sanctions lists , with the compliance department informed immediately in the event of a hit . In Austria , the procurement department reviews all new creditors and regularly reviews existing ones on a half-yearly basis as part of a compliance check that also includes an inspection of sanctions lists ( via KSV/one.osf/eight.osf/seven.osf/zero.osf ) . We also use long-term cooperation in the spirit of partnership to build a close relationship of trust with our contractual partners . This is largely the responsibility of the procure-ment department and allows any misconduct to be ad-dressed . The procurement department has been assigned to the Chief Transformation Oﬃcer ’ s ( CTO ) Management Board function since January /one.osf , .In the reporting year , we revised the Group procurement guidelines to further strengthen compliance with due diligence obligations and internal governance procedures , for example . The new guidelines apply throughout the Group and have been in eﬀect since January /one.osf , zero.osfthree.osf . We also began the gradual integration of Deutsche Wohnen ’ s suppliers into Vonovia ’ s partner portal in the reporting year . The structures of Vonovia ’ s central procurement department were trans-ferred to the Deutsche Wohnen subgroup . CombinedtabManagementtabReport —Non-ﬁnancial Group Declaration 162As part of its sustainability strategy , Vonovia has made a clear and explicit commitment to climate protection targets and a virtually carbon-neutral housing stock by zero.osf/four.osf/five.osf . Based on our current knowledge and expectations regarding future developments , this will not have any impact on Vonovia ’ s balance sheet . This relates , among other things , to the fair values of investment properties , speciﬁc useful lives and the value of assets , as well as provisions for environmental risks , for which no signiﬁcant need for adjustment emerges.Options and JudgmentsOptions exercised and judgments made by Vonovia ’ s management in the process of applying the entity ’ s account-ing policies that may have a signiﬁcant eﬀect on the amounts recognized in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the following : /greater.osfThe group of investments accounted for using the equity method is determined by assessing signiﬁcant inﬂuence . /greater.osfDetermining whether the acquisition of investment properties as part of a business combination constitutes the acquisition of a “ business ” or the acquisition of an individual asset or group of assets can involve discretion-ary judgments . /greater.osfVonovia measures investment properties at fair value . If management had opted to use the acquisition costs model as permitted under IAS/uni00A0/four.osf/zero.osf , the carrying amounts of the investment properties as well as the corresponding income and expense items in the income statement would diﬀer signiﬁcantly . /greater.osfThe criteria for assessing in which category a ﬁnancial asset is to be classiﬁed may involve discretionary judg-ments . /greater.osfWithin the scope of revenue recognition in accordance with IFRS/uni00A0/one.osf/five.osf , discretionary decisions relating to the expect-ed revenue , the total costs of a project and the degree of completion may be necessary . These have an impact on the amount and timing of revenue . /greater.osfWhen accounting for leases in accordance with IFRS /one.osf/six.osf , the assessment of the exercise or non-exercise of unilater-ally granted termination or renewal options may involve discretionary judgment , particularly if there is no economic incentive for the exercise or non-exercise of options . /greater.osfThe need to include information concerning the future in the valuation of expected defaults results in discretionary decisions regarding the impact that changes in economic factors will have on the expected defaults . /greater.osfThe decision on how to deﬁne a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated may involve discretion-ary judgments . /greater.osfAllocating the goodwill to the group of individual cash-generating units may also involve discretionary judgments . 

Here are the details from the table:

- **Category**: Total number of proven cases of corruption (in Germany)
- **Unit**: Number
- **2021**: 0
- **2022**: 0 (with a note indicating "Exclusive segment care")

This table indicates that there were no proven cases of corruption reported in Germany for Deutsche Post in both 2021 and 2022. The asterisk note clarifies that this figure is exclusive of segment care.