1 Company 2 Combined management Consolidated financial 4 Other information 
report 3 statements and service 13

Audit committee 
The audit committee reviewed and scrutinized the annual financial statements and the 

consolidated financial statements for 2021 (including the combined management report), the 

non-financial report 2021 and the remuneration report 2021, as well as the quarterly statement 

for the first quarter, the half-year report and quarterly statement for the third quarter of 2022. 

The committee regularly reviewed and discussed the focus and the quality of the audit, the 

status reports on GRC (Governance, Risk & Compliance) including data privacy, cyber 

security, litigation and the work of internal audit as well as treasury reports. It also received 

relevant regulatory updates. The audit committee was involved in the preparation of the 

Supervisory Board’s proposal to the annual general meeting 2022 for the appointment of the 

auditor and group auditor and discussed the status and development of the non-financial 

internal control system. The audit committee discussed with the auditors the audit risk 

assessment, the audit strategy and audit planning, and the audit results. The chairperson of 

the audit committee conferred with the auditors on the audit focus and regularly discussed 

the progress of the audit with the auditor and reported thereon to the audit committee. 

The audit committee regularly consulted with the auditors regarding relevant matters without 

the Management Board present. 

The audit committee also conducted an audit tender process for the annual audit of the 

financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of ZALANDO SE and the 

financial statements of its consolidated subsidiaries for the financial year 2024. A change 

of the audit firm is mandatory due to the rotation requirement stipulated in Section 17 of the 

regulation (EU) No 537/2014. Following the publication of the tender in the Federal Gazette 

on March 4, 2022, several offers of audit firms were evaluated in detail and in accordance with 

applicable statutory provisions. The audit committee presented the results of the audit tender 

to the Supervisory Board on December 5 and 6, 2022. 

Further, the acquisition of land for a new fulfillment center and a price volatility mechanism to 

adjust the overall investment budget for fulfillment center projects and related rental agree- 

ments to react upon increased prices were approved by the audit committee in accordance 

with its powers delegated from the Supervisory Board plenum. In addition, the audit committee 

approved lease agreements and the related budget for another two fulfillment centers projects 

that are no longer being pursued by the company in the meantime. 

Remuneration committee 
The remuneration committee evaluated the Management Board’s performance and the 

shareholder response and feedback to the to the remuneration report 2021. Further, it 

reviewed and considered the development of the company’s share price, the share-based 

compensation component of the Management Board members and assessed any potential 

needs to amend the Management Board’s remuneration framework. The committee further 

addressed the succession plan for the Management Board and prepared the reappointment 

of David Schréder as member of the Management Board. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



1 Company 2 Combined management 3 Consolidated financial 4 Other information 
report statements and service 14

Nomination committee 
The nomination committee continued to prepare the succession plan of the 

Supervisory Board. Finally, it discussed the results from the self-assessment conducted 

by the Supervisory Board at the end of the year 2021. 

D&I and sustainability committee 
The D&l and sustainability committee dealt with the company’s efforts to further embed 

sustainability and D&I matters into its strategy. In addition, the committee discussed the 

amendment to the Supervisory Board’s competence profile to better embrace the meaning 

of diversity. The Sustainability Progress Report in 2022 and the diversity & inclusion report 

in 2022 have been shared with the D&l and sustainability committee. 

Share buy-back committee 
The share buy-back committee approved a share buy-back program on the basis of the 

authorization granted by the annual general meeting 2020. Further details of the share-buy 

back program are described in 3.5.7 (20.) Equity. 

Conflicts of interest 
No significant conflicts of interest of any Supervisory Board member occurred in the context 

of the work of the Supervisory Board. 

Training and professional development 
The Supervisory Board members were offered trainings that dealt with a variety of legal and 

compliance topics. The members of the audit committee, in particular the financial experts of 

the audit committee, took part in a training that was held by an external international audit 

company and had a specific focus on non-financial reporting. Further, Cristina Stenbeck as 

chairperson of the Supervisory Board was briefed in depth in a virtual session concerning her 

governance roadshow. And last but not least, an in person training session on Corporate 

Governance matters was conducted by the General Counsel for the Supervisory Board 

members, including but not limited to corporate bodies’ roles, personal suitability, key tasks 

and personal liability as well as a discussion on the specific mandate of the Supervisory Board 

of Zalando. 
 

Corporate governance 

The annual declaration of conformity was issued by the Management Board and the 

Supervisory Board in December 2022. The complete text of the declaration can be found 

in 2.5.2 Declaration of conformity. The declaration is made permanently available in the 

Corporate governance section on the company’s website. 

More information on corporate governance can be found in the Corporate Governance 

Statement and the associated declaration. With regard to the remuneration structure for the 

members of the Management Board for fiscal year 2022 and to avoid repetition, please see 

the remuneration report. 

Personnel matters 
During the fiscal year 2022, the composition of the Supervisory Board remained unchanged. 

All shareholder representatives are elected until the end of the annual general meeting 

that resolves on the discharge of liability for fiscal year 2022. Cristina Stenbeck remained 

chairperson and Kelly Bennett remained deputy chairperson of the Supervisory Board 

throughout the reporting period. Membership in the various committees is detailed in 

2.5.3 Two-tier board system. 

The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Management Board and all employees of 

the Zalando group for their tremendous of commitment to the company and their important 

insights and valuable contribution and the strong achievements in fiscal year 2022. 

Berlin, March 6, 2023 

Cristina Stenbeck 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 53

damages on the part of the company against the Management Board members in the event 

of culpable breaches of duty (such as according to Section 93 (2) AktG). 

Benefits promised or granted to a member of the Management Board by a third party with 

regard to their activity as a member of the Board of Management (Section 162 (2) No.1 AktG) 

During the fiscal year 2022, no benefits were granted to the members of the Management 

Board by third parties. Also, there are no outstanding benefits that were promised by third 

parties to the members of the Management Board. 

Benefits promised to the members of the Management Board in the event of regular or early 

termination (Section 162 (2) No. 2 and 3 AktG) 

Severance entitlements upon premature termination 

The service agreements of all current Management Board members provide that in the 

event of aremoval from office for good cause pursuant to Section 84 (4) AktG, the company 

may terminate the service agreement prematurely within the statutory termination period 

pursuant to Section 622 BGB. In such an event and if there is no good cause for the term- 

ination within the meaning of Section 626 BGB, the member of the Management Board 

is entitled to a cash severance payment which amounts to two times the annual fixed salary, 

however, not more than the fixed salary that would have been payable for the remaining term 

of the service agreement. 

Entitlement upon death and permanent incapacity 

In the event of death, the service agreements of all current members of the Management 

Board provide for continued payment of the fixed remuneration for the month of death and 

the following three months to the spouse, registered partner or partner and/or any children 

under the age of 25 living with the member of the Management Board and being entitled to 

child support. 

In the event of permanent incapacity to work, the service agreement will end without notice 

of termination being required at the end of the calendar quarter in which such permanent 

incapacity to work is determined. If a Management Board member is temporarily unable to 

work as a result of illness, accident or any other reason beyond the Director's control, the 

Director’s Service Agreement provides for a continued payment of their fixed remuneration 

for up to six weeks, but not beyond the effective termination date of the service agreement. 

Treatment of outstanding variable remuneration 

In the event of a permanent incapacity of a Management Board member unvested Options 

under the LT! 2018, the LTI 2019, the LTI 2021 and the LTI 2021/2022 continue to vest (until 

termination of the office of the member of the Management Board) also during periods of 

inability to work. 

Also unvested options under the LT! 2018, the LT! 2019, the LTI 2021 and the LT! 2021/2022 

which would have vested during the following two years can be kept by the member of the 

Management Board and continue to vest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 

applicable LTI scheme. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 54

Otherwise, as a general rule, if a leaver event occurs (as defined in each of the programs) 

all unvested options of the members of the Management Board under the LT! 2018, the LT] 

2019, the LTI 2021 and the LT| 2021/2022 are forfeited without compensation. However, 

in the case of a revocation of amember of the Management Board from office by the company 

for good cause pursuant to Section 84 (4) AktG without the Management Board member 

qualifying as bad leaver (as defined in each of the programs), the Management Board member 

retains all unexercised stock options under the LT! 2018, the LTI 2019, the LTI 2021, the LTI 

2021/2022 and the ZOP 2021 and all unvested options under the LTI 2018, the LT! 2019, the 

LTI 2021 and the LTI 2021/2022 which would have vested during the following two years can 

be kept by the Management Board member and continue to vest in accordance with the terms 

and conditions of the applicable LTI scheme. 

If the Management Board member qualifies as bad leaver (as defined in each of the programs), 

all unsettled options of the Management Board member under the LTI 2018, the LTI 2019, the 

LTI 2021 or the LTI 2021/2022 (irrespective of vested or not), and all yet unexercised options 

under the SOP 2013 and all yet unexercised virtual stock options under the ZOP 2021 are 

forfeited without compensation. 

Under the VSOP 2018, in a leaver event (as further defined) the virtual stock options granted 

will irrevocably cease to vest, and all of the unvested virtual stock options will be forfeited 

without entitlement to compensation. In the case of a bad leaver event all vested and unexer- 

cised virtual stock options will be forfeited without entitlement to compensation. In the case of 

aleaver event that does not qualify as a bad leaver event (good leaver event) all of the vested 

and unexercised virtual stock options are retained. 

Entitlements upon a change of control 

If the office or service agreement of a member of the Management Board ends due toa 

change of control, there are no contractually agreed change-of-control severance entitle- 

ments. There are also no specific contractually agreed termination rights for the members 

of the Management Board in the event of a change of control. 

However, the LT! 2018, the LTI 2019, the LTI 2021 and the LTI 2021/2022 provide for a 

cancellation right of the Management Board members in the event of a change of control (as 

defined in each of the program rules) pertaining to unexercised vested options, and the SOP 

2013 in relation to a certain portion of the options (equal to the portion of shares or assets of 

the company acquired by the acquirer(s) of control), in return for which the Management 

Board member is then entitled to a cash compensation per unexercised vested option. 

The cash compensation per unexercised vested option (under the LTI 2018, the LT! 2019, the 

LTI 2021 and the LTI 2021/2022) generally corresponds to the compensation per share under 

the takeover offer minus the exercise price or (in the case of the SOP 2013) the compensation 

per share under the takeover offer if such offer is made or the volume-weighted average share 

price of one share in the company during the last 30 trading days prior to the change-of- 

control-event, in each case minus the exercise price. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 55

Also, under the LTI 2018, the LTI 2019, the LTI 2021 and the LTI 2021/2022, the company 

itself can request a cancellation of unexercised vested options in exchange for a payment 

of the above cash compensation and replacement of unvested options by an economically 

equivalent new incentive program, and under the SOP 2013 the company can request a 

replacement of some or all of the unvested options by an economically equivalent new 

incentive program. 

Under the VSOP 2018, in the event of a change of control (as defined in the program) the 

company may request that a portion of the then outstanding vested virtual stock options which 

is equal to the portion of the shares or assets (as the case may be) acquired of the company in 

the relevant change of control event shall be canceled in exchange for a payment by the com- 

pany of an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the product of the relevant share price and 

the number of virtual stock options canceled over (ii) the aggregate exercise price for all such 

canceled virtual stock options, subject to certain deductions. The remaining vested virtual 

stock options not subject to the cancellation request remain unaffected. 

The existing variable remuneration programs do not provide for any accelerated vesting in the 

case of a change of control. 

Post-contractual non-compete clause 

A post-contractual non-competition clause and accordingly also a promise of a non-compete 

compensation payment have not been agreed in the service contracts of the Management 

Board members who were active as Management Board members in the reporting year. 

Benefits promised or granted to a former member of the Management Board whose position 

ended in the course of the reporting year (Section 162 (2) No. 4 AktG) 

As no member left the Management Board in the reporting period, no such benefits were 

promised or granted. 

Deviations from the remuneration system during the reporting period (Section 162 (1) 

Sentence 2 No. 5 AktG) 

In exceptional cases, the Supervisory Board may temporarily deviate from the components 

of the remuneration system for the Management Board of Zalando in accordance with 

Section 87a (1) Sentence 2 AktG if this is necessary in the interest of the long-term welfare 

of the company. During the fiscal year 2022, there was no deviation from the remuneration 

system 2021. 


Increased focus on ethical standards 

An important aspect of our sustainability challenge is to ensure we maintain high ethical 

standards, both in our own operations and those of our partners around the world. We want 

to guide positive action on issues such as low pay, inequality, long working hours, and working 

conditions. To move toward solutions, we are working to maintain an effective due diligence 

process, both in our own operations and across our sphere of influence. We have aligned our 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 88

efforts with the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act®®, which defines a range of 

requirements for responsible supply chain management. 

We set ourselves the following goal: By 2023, we have continuously increased our ethical 

standards and only work with partners who align with them. Our human rights due diligence 

program supports our efforts, helping us identify and act on risks in our operations, supply 

chains, and business partnerships. In 2022, we validated our human rights due diligence 

practices against the requirements of the German Supply Chain Act and prepared for a more 

holistic risk management approach in 2023. 

The governance of or due diligence program is grounded in our Code of Conduct and our new 

Policy Statement on Zalando’s Human Rights Strategy, which together set out principles we 

aspire to. The program is built on four cyclical steps: 

1. Analyze: Based on the learnings from risk assessments in 2021, we updated our partner 

risk analysis. From 2023, we plan to assess all our direct suppliers annually on human rights 

risks™, based on their location, industry, and our spend with them. The output will be a stan- 

dardized risk profile (very high, high, moderate or low risk). 

2. Prioritize: Based on the risk profiles, we will prioritize prevention and remediation actions, 

as well as define risk management plans. 

3. Manage: Our risk management approach is focused on two dimensions: sector risk 

mitigation through industry-wide collaboration and supplier-specific risk management through 

prevention and remediation. 

— Mitigate: To address identified sector-level risks, Zalando collaborates with other retailers 

or business partners and participates in industry initiatives. This includes, but is not 

limited to, our membership of ACT (Action, Collaboration, Transformation) to advocate for 

a living wage. To combat child labor, we launched a program with Save the Children® and 

joined the Child Rights in Business (CRIB) Working Group. 

— Prevent & Remediate: We implement our prevention and remediation strategy through 

three levers: our Code of Conduct, brand self-assessment, and auditing. 

Our Code of Conduct: Our Code of Conduct sets out binding principles for ethical, fair and 

sustainable practices, and is embedded in our supplier contracts. This year we launched a 

tracking mechanism for and plan to integrate control mechanisms into our annual risk 

assessments. After becoming aware of violations of our Code of Conduct or other ethical 

standards, we implement an appropriate Corrective Action Plan with the affected partner. 

If the partner fails to engage, we will pause and eventually end the relationship. In 2022, 

Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 89

eleven cases were satisfactorily remediated’’, two cases led to offboarding (compared to one 

in 2021). Two investigations were closed because they were out of scope or no violation was 

confirmed (compared to four in 2021). Twelve investigations are ongoing. In total, we opened 

26 new investigations into allegations of violations of our ethical standards in our supply chain 

(compared to six in 2021°’). 

Brand self-assessment: In 2022, we asked our strategic brand partners™” to complete a self- 

assessment using the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s (SAC) Higg Brand & Retail Module 

(Higg BRM). The assessment covers both social and environmental practices. In the coming 

year, we will roll out a standardized self-assessment questionnaire for our direct suppliers. 

The questionnaire will provide insights into their due diligence processes. 

Social audits: Our fulfillment centers, premium last mile logistics providers, customer care 

teams, and private label Tier 1 suppliers provide us with social audits annually or within a 

timeframe recommended by one of the auditing standards mentioned below. Audits are 

evaluated against an internal non-compliance matrix, which is based on our Code of Conduct, 

local legal requirements, and either our Social Standards for logistics and customer care or 

industry standards including SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) and BSCI (Busi- 

ness Social Compliance Initiative) for private label suppliers. 

Findings of non-compliance are classified as minor, major, critical and zero tolerance, leading 

to a rating and potential Corrective Action Plan. In 2022, we evaluated 302 audit reports (175 

in 2021) from private label suppliers and declined to onboard four factories or suppliers (five in 

2021) for not meeting audit requirements. 

4. Reporting: We will report on our human rights due diligence in accordance with the German 

Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. 

Preparing our workforce for the future 

The world of work is changing fast, and many of the jobs that will be undertaken by the next 

generation do not yet exist. The OECD estimates that up to 1 billion people need to be reskilled 

by 2030 to meet demand for new skills.°° In 2022, we saw arising demand for expertise in 

areas such as machine learning and data science, storytelling, and resilience. We need to rise 

to the challenge by investing in workforce training. That is why we set ourselves the following 

goal: By 2023, we have supported 10,000 people in the workforce by providing skilling 

opportunities that match future work requirements. The scope of the goal is split between 

our own workforce, the workforce in our private label supply chain and in our brand partner 

supply chains. 

Since 2020, 5,016 people’? received skilling training (2,243 in 2022, of which 996 in 

ZALANDO SE). To support our employees and those working in our supply chain in 

keeping pace with shifting workplace demands, we offer a range of upskilling and reskil- 

Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 90

ling opportunities. Upskilling means providing additional skills to perform a role where the 

requirements will change. Reskilling means acquiring new skills. Our skilling programs 

are divided into three pillars: 

— Skilling opportunities linked to future-of-work megatrends: We believe the future of 

work will be defined by six megatrends: i) Working more inclusively, ii) embracing new 

technologies, iii) working in new environments, iv) working more collaboratively, v) being 

at the forefront of innovation, and vi) working with more empathy. To prepare Zalando’s 

employees, we foster learning opportunities focused on topics including new tech- 

nologies, leading hybrid teams, and vital soft skills such as inclusivity and empathy. 

By the end of 2022, we ran 174 courses. 

— Skilling opportunities linked to changing business needs: We performed a skilling needs 

analysis focused on changing business needs in the short- and mid-term. As a result, we 

have launched programs across the technology, commercial, and operations functions: 

— Technology. Our Women in Tech program provides an opportunity for employees 

from diverse backgrounds to be re-skilled for software engineering roles. 

— Commercial. Our Buying and Merchandising Skillhouse program offers operations 

specialists the opportunity to transition to buying or merchandising roles. 

— Operations. With the support of local chambers of commerce, we run several 

programs for logistic workers, including the option to obtain professional certification 

(“Fachkraft Lagerlogistik”). We continue to offer dedicated career path development 

programs. 

— Skilling opportunities linked to our upstream supply chain: In 2022, we continued to 

pilot a skilling program with Shimmy Technologies and BSR’s HERproject™ in our 

upstream supply chain in Bangladesh. We trained around 800 people in digital literacy, 

efficiency training, gender equality, financial literacy, workplace communication, and 

health and wellbeing. 

Being part of the solution 

Our Corporate Citizenship program aims to facilitate real world solutions in line with three 

objectives: a social impact position in Europe, good collaboration with communities in our 

fulfillment and supply chain, and a willingness to engage, enable and work with our customers 

to deliver positive change. 

In response to Russia’s invasion of the Ukraine, we have tried to make a contribution to the 

humanitarian response. We donated funds and in-kind support to those impacted by the war. 

Zalando, alongside our employees and customers, contributed nearly EUR 1.5m to support 

humanitarian relief for those impacted by the war and projects supporting Ukrainians in 

Germany, alongside EUR 255,000 worth of in-kind donations. We have made direct contri- 

butions to Polish Humanitarian Action, which provides humanitarian aid including food and 

other forms of support to refugees fleeing to Poland. We also donated to our NGO partners, 

namely Red Cross, humedica as well as Save the Children, and matched donations from 

Zalando employees and customers in 2022. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements 4 and service 91

We helped to fund an SOS Children’s Villages worldwide program: A Right to Family - 

De-Institutionalization to Reform the Child Protection System. The program aims to pro- 

tect childrens’ rights and supports the reform of alternative childcare systems and the 

de-institutionalization process in the Ukraine. In principle, de-institutionalization comprises 

two processes: A negotiation process with the government about what de-institutionalization 

means, followed by the implementation process. Our funding of more than EUR 275,000 

covers the project until April 2025. 

In addition to in-kind and financial donations, Zalando has supported our local community 

in Berlin, sponsoring the Ukrainian Pop-Up Charity Market SKRYNYA, organized by Zalando 

volunteers, the European Academy of Berlin and the many supporters and friends of the 

Ukraine. The SKRYNYA sponsorship supports Ukrainian creatives, including fashion, jewelry, 

and home brands. The event took place in July and October. Over 3,000 people visited the 

events, and more than 50 brands from the Ukraine took part at the event. 

Creating the next generation of fashion designers. In 2022, we launched The Design Academy 

to bring social and economic development into our communities. The program offers training, 

education, technology and collaboration in sustainable fashion. The academy’s mission is to 

grow knowledge, skills and resources in circular and sustainable fashion, creating social and 

economic opportunities and solutions to end fast fashion. 

In October 2022, we launched our first Design Academy pilot with our partners VORN - The 

Berlin Fashion Hub, Unity, and Kornit Digital. Through our sponsorship, ten designers received 

training on the principles of circular and sustainable fashion, digital creation, and interaction 

design. The resulting designs will be showcased at Berlin Fashion Week 2023. In 2023, we 

plan to roll out the program across Europe. 

Completing our work on refugee migration in Europe. We completed our collaboration with our 

partner Ashoka on our 2015 initiative Hello Europe. This collaboration launched an accelerator 

program, aiming to transform the field of migration through a collaborative framework. 

The program involved over 130 leaders from 23 countries representing social innovation, 

government, policy, corporate, academia, and social sectors. 

Community investment and volunteering. We support our employees with two volunteering 

days per year and offer them skill-based volunteering opportunities. The selection of partners 

and projects is based on our communities’ needs and Zalando areas of expertise to ensure we 

drive meaningful impact. 

Since 2015, our partner for corporate volunteering is vostel.de. In 2022, 772 Zalando 

employees supported 71 projects through 3,381 hours of volunteering. Due to the war in 

the Ukraine, we worked with vostel.de especially to offer Zalando volunteering opportunities 

focused on supporting people affected by the war. For example, Zalando employees volun- 

teered on projects in online mentoring for job search and integration in Germany as well as 

packaging and distributing food for new arrivals. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 






Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct. 

The Zalando Code of Ethics outlines the standards to which we as a company adhere. 

Based on fundamental values of honesty, respect, trust, and fairness, the code forms the basic 

guideline of our work-related interactions. It sets mandatory standards and clear expectations 

for professional, ethical, and responsible behavior. Our Code of Ethics requires all employees 

to follow the law and also sets our expectations with regard to Diversity & Inclusion, respectful 

behavior and avoidance of conflicts of interest. Fostering a speak-up culture so that employ- 

ees actively participate and raise concerns or report potential compliance breaches is an 

essential part of Zalando’s culture. This expectation is complemented by the promise to 

protect all those who report an incident in good faith from negative consequences. The Code 

of Ethics has been communicated to all employees in various languages and is available on our 

corporate website. It also stipulates the obligation for all employees to comply with our data 

protection standards, as set out in internal policies, principles and guidelines. Protecting 

personal data, as well as collecting, processing, and using the data in accordance with the law 

is fundamental to Zalando because it is essential not just for our employee and partner-related 

data but especially for our customers and their trust in our products and services. This 

customer trust is the basis for long-term customer relationships. Therefore, Zalando ensures 

regular employee privacy training and has designed actionable privacy principles to create 

awareness and guardrails for privacy compliant business design and conduct. For our 

employees we have a dedicated online resource with guidance on how Zalando handles 

employee data and sets out rights employees have in relation to personal data they share 

with Zalando. Specialized privacy roles support all business divisions with guidelines and 

standards to ensure proper safeguards are implemented across the company and its group 

entities. Zalando is regulated under European and national data protection regulations and 

we closely monitor changes in legislation in order to properly adopt regulatory requirements. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



1 Company Combined management 3 Consolidated financial 4 Other information 
report statements and service 147

In the reporting period, we launched an initiative to onboard local enablers outside the 

headquarters to serve as a compliance multiplicator (‘AmbaZador”) and, vice versa, local 

contact point to the centralized compliance team. This ensures a better understanding of 

local challenges and helps driving well informed solutions by removing (potential) barriers 

when seeking for compliance assistance. In line therewith, we approach sites in scope directly 

to offer onsite training for every employee, regardless of an existing leadership responsibility. 

The aim is to promote the local Compliance AmbaZador as part of the training and facilitate 

personal contact with the central Compliance and Business Ethics team. Each mandatory 

training course is followed by mandatory refresher courses every other year. Employees 

receive an automatic reminder to fulfill their training obligations. If the employees do not 

fulfill their obligations, the lead will be informed and reminded repeatedly until the training 

is completed. 

Making ethical behavior a naturalness internally also leads to comparable expectations 

towards external partners. Therefore, the Zalando Code of Conduct outlines the standards 

to which we hold our business partners accountable. It covers the areas of Human Rights and 

Labour Rights, Environmental Protection, Fair and Ethical Business Practices, Monitoring and 

Complaints. Our Code of Conduct is published on our corporate website. It applies to all 

business partners - including suppliers, service providers, platform partners, distributors, 

consultants and agents of ZALANDO SE and all its subsidiaries. We rolled out an updated 

version in 2022 and therein included a section on corporate digital responsibility and 

highlighted the importance of a digitally inclusive and sustainable future. We encourage all 

business partners to recognize their own digital responsibility in line with the Corporate Digital 

Responsibility Code. We expect every business partner to acknowledge the standards set out 

in our Code of Conduct and require appropriate management systems and due diligence 

processes to be in place. 

Zalando carries out business partner due diligence reviews (sanction list screening and 

compliance database and adverse media checks, followed by an in-depth review carried out 

by the Compliance & Business Ethics Team if any findings are made) for defined groups of 

business partners and in cases where potential compliance risks are apparent. 

In preparation for the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act which came into force on 

January 1, 2023, we have - as required by law - appointed a Human Rights Officer. 

Our compliance training entails our Code of Ethics, Code of Conduct and group policies, 

including anti-corruption related policies such as our group policy benefits, gifts, events & 

expenses. We train colleagues with leadership responsibility in person, respectively, as 

a proven concept during the ongoing pandemic situation, via video chat solutions. In the 

training sessions we discuss in detail all questions related to the relevant topics. We aim for 

a high level of knowledge of our leaders in particular about our internal guidelines as these 

colleagues with leadership responsibility should be role models. Employees without leadership 

responsibility are made aware of our compliance relevant regulations via e-learning courses. 

The e-learning courses are mandatory for all employees who have a Zalando email address 

(except for defined roles with low compliance risks in logistics and stores). 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



1 Company Combined management 3 Consolidated financial 4 Other information 
report statements and service 148

In the reporting period, 46 compliance basics face-to-face training courses (including 

Compliance AmbaZador onboardings) were carried out. Compared to 2021 (27) we raised 

the number of training courses as it was again partly possible to travel and conduct face to 

face trainings outside Berlin which we made use of via dedicated onsite sessions with limited 

number of participants, compared to the video chat format. The combination of both training 

formats (live and video chat) led to a training number comparable to pre-pandemic years. 

4,988 employees completed the compliance basics e-learning courses (2021: 5,409), among 

them 2,785 employees of ZALANDO SE (2021: 2,995). 

Various communication channels are available to facilitate the reporting of presumed 

compliance infringements to the Compliance & Business Ethics Team. They can inter alia 

be reported - in various languages - via a whistleblowing tool from a third-party provider, on 

an anonymous basis if preferred. The anonymous and protected reporting channel is available 

to employees as well as third parties. Reported cases which qualify as a potential compliance 

violation are managed by the Compliance & Business Ethics Team; if a reported scenario 

qualifies as a potential serious case, a compliance panel takes over decision making. The 

panel consists of senior executives and our Chief People Officer. 

Information on detected compliance infringements, important updates of processes or 

policies, as well as training attendance quotas are reported to the Management Board and 

the audit committee of the Supervisory Board at least on a quarterly basis. 

Suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code 
Our company voluntarily complies with the suggestions of the German Corporate Governance 

Code, with only the following exception: 

According to suggestion A.8 of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Management 

Board should convene an extraordinary general meeting in the event of a take-over offer at 

which shareholders will discuss the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions. 

We do not consider strict adherence to this suggestion being in the best interest of the 

company and its stakeholders. Convening an extraordinary general meeting is an organiza- 

tional challenge and may delay the implementation of necessary corporate actions to respond 

to a take over offer. Therefore, we would only convene an extraordinary general meeting ona 

case-by-case basis in appropriate situations. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements and service 293

significant deviations or irregularities in detail. In addition, we considered the allocation to 

seasons and valuation groups as well as the classification of never out-of-stock articles in the 

valuation model. 

The valuation model also incorporates the expected proceeds from excess stocks. 

We examined the assumptions associated with expected proceeds considering proceeds 

actually generated in the past from merchandise sold at a high discount as well as merchan- 

dise disposed of outside of distance retail. In this context, we considered additional quality- 

determining features (“ABCD” and “never-out-of-stock” merchandise) separately. 

We developed expectations regarding write-downs to be recognized in the future based 

on this and compared them with the write-downs calculated and recorded according to the 

valuation model. Furthermore, we verified the clerical accuracy of the valuation model. 

Our procedures did not lead to any reservations relating to the subsequent measurement 

of merchandise inventory. 

Reference to related disclosures 

With regard to the accounting policies applied for the subsequent measurement of 

merchandise revenue, we refer to the company’s disclosures in notes 3.5.5 (Accounting 

policies) and 3.5.7 (16) (Inventories) in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

3) Accounting treatment of the acquisition of shares in Titel Media 
GmbH, Berlin (Highsnobiety) 
Reasons why the matter was determined to be a key audit matter 

By agreement dated June 13, 2022, Zalando acquired 86.83% of the shares in Titel Media 

GmbH, Berlin (Highsnobiety), with effect as of July 1, 2022. With the acquisition of the shares, 

Zalando obtained control of Titel Media GmbH. For the remaining 13.17% of the shares there 

is a put and call option with identical terms over a term of three years. This option is structured 

in such a way that according to IFRS, Zalando already has a present ownership interest in 

these shares which in turn means that no non-controlling interest has to be recognized in the 

consolidated financial statements of Zalando. 

The consideration transferred for the acquisition of Titel Media GmbH of EUR 152.5m 

comprises three components: a cash component, the issue of new shares in Zalando and 

the part of the exercise price of the put and call option, which is payable to the selling 

shareholders regardless of whether they remain in the service of the company over the 

next three years. 

In accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” in conjunction with IFRS 13 “Fair Value 

Measurement”, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recognized 

at their fair value on the acquisition date (July 1, 2022), which was determined based on 

the purchase price allocation. The identification and measurement of assets and liabilities 

acquired are complex and are based on judgment-based assumptions made by the executive 

directors. The assumptions relevant for the measurement affect, for example, the revenue and 

margin forecast, residual useful lives, imputed royalty rates and the calculation of cost of 

capital. The calculation of goodwill, the allocation to the operating segment Fashion Store 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements and service 254

and the determination and accounting treatment of the consideration, either as a portion of 

the purchase price for the business acquisition or subsequently as expenses to be recognized, 

is subject to judgment. Against this background, the accounting treatment of the acquisition of 

shares in Titel Media GmbH was a key audit matter in fiscal year 2022. 

Auditor's response 

We first inspected and verified the contractual agreements. Furthermore, we reconciled the 

purchase price paid, the measurement of the issue of new shares in Zalando and the con- 

sideration for the put and call option with the evidence provided to us and evaluated their 

accounting treatment in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. We also evaluated the 

recognition and measurement of the shares underlying the put and call options in accordance 

with the requirements of IFRS 3 and IFRS 10. 

Our audit procedures comprised the assessment of the methodology applied by the external 

expert consulted by the executive directors to identify and measure the assets acquired and 

liabilities assumed in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. With the assistance of our 

internal valuation specialists, we analyzed the assumptions and estimates subject to judgment 

(in particular growth rates, cost of capital rates, imputed royalty rates or remaining useful lives) 

made to determine the fair values of the material acquired identifiable intangible assets (in 

particular the acquired customer relationships and brand names) as well as of the liabilities 

assumed, whether they correspond to general and industry-specific market expectations. In 

addition, we verified the models arithmetically and assessed the methodology and reconciled 

the future expected cash flows used for measurement with internal budgets. 

We also reviewed the appropriateness of the assumptions and parameters underlying the 

cost of capital, particularly the risk-free interest rate, the market risk premium and the beta 

factor with our own assumptions and publicly available data. In connection with the revenue 

and margin forecast, we also analyzed the developments forecast against the background of 

market expectations and observing the historical developments. We also reviewed the dis- 

closures on the acquisition of shares in Titel Media GmbH in the notes to the consolidated 

financial statements. 

Our audit procedures did not lead to any reservations concerning the accounting treatment 

of the acquisition of shares in Titel Media GmbH in the consolidated financial statements. 

Reference to related disclosures: 

Additional disclosures on the acquisition of the shares in Titel Media GmbH are contained 

in chapter 3.5.8 “Other notes” and section (5.) “Business combinations” of the notes to the 

consolidated financial statements. 

Other information 

The Supervisory Board is responsible for the report of the Supervisory Board. The executive 

directors and the Supervisory Board are responsible for the declaration pursuant to Section 

161 AktG [“Aktiengesetz”: German Stock Corporation Act] on the German Corporate 

Governance Code, which is part of the statement on corporate governance, and for the 

remuneration report pursuant to Section 162 AktG. In all other respects, the executive 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements and service 290

directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 

parts of the annual report mentioned in the appendix to the auditor's report. 

Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report 

do not cover the other information, and consequently we do not express an opinion or any 

other form of assurance conclusion thereon. 

In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, 

to consider whether the other information 

— is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group 

management report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 

— otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 

If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 

of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in 

this regard. 

Responsibilities of the executive directors and the Supervisory Board for 
the consolidated financial statements and the group management report 
The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial 

statements that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the 

additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Section 315e (1) of the HGB, 

and that the consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give 

a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of 

the group. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they 

have determined necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that 

are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud (i.e., fraudulent financial reporting 

and misappropriation of assets) or error. 

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the executive directors are responsible 

for assessing the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They also have the respon- 

sibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In addition, they are 

responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting unless 

there is an intention to liquidate the group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic 

alternative but to do so. 

Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the group manage- 

ment report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the group’s position and is, in 

all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with 

German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future 

development. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such arrangements and 

measures (systems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group 

management report that is in accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and 

to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group 

management report. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 


We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 

We also: 

— Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial 

statements and of the group management report, whether due to fraud or error, design 

and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 

is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting 

a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting a 

material misstatement resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 

intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 

— Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated 

financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit 

of the group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 

in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 

effectiveness of these systems. 

— Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and 

the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and related disclosures. 

— Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ use of the going concern 

basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 

uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 

group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 

exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022 



Company Combined management Consolidated financial Other information 
1 report 3 statements and service Zot

in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if 

such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective opinions. Our conclusions 

are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 

future events or conditions may cause the group to cease to be able to continue asa 

going concern. 

— Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial 

statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial state- 

ments present the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated 

financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 

and financial performance of the group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the 

EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Section 

315e (1) HGB. 

— Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the 

entities or business activities within the group to express opinions on the consolidated 

financial statements and on the group management report. We are responsible for the 

direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible 

for our audit opinions. 

— Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial 

statements, its conformity with [German] law, and the view of the group’s position it 

provides. 

— Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive 

directors in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit 

evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions used by the executive 

directors as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation 

of the prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate 

opinion on the prospective information and on the assumptions used as a basis. There 

is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the pro- 

spective information. 

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the 

planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant 

deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with 

the relevant independence requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and 

other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence and where 

applicable, the related safeguards. 

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those 

matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements 

of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in 

our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. 

ZALANDO SE ANNUAL REPORT 2022
